## President Trump Announces Cabinet and Cabinet Level Appointments (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

President Trump has announced a list of individuals he is nominating for key positions in his
Cabinet and other high-level roles. These nominations include Scott Bessent for Secretary of the
Treasury, Pamela Bondi for Attorney General, and Marco Rubio for Secretary of State, among others.
Each nominee is from a different state and will need to be confirmed by the Senate before officially
taking on their roles.

The Cabinet is a group of the most senior appointed officers of the executive branch of the federal
government, who are generally the heads of the federal executive departments. The Cabinet's role is
to advise the President on any subject he may require relating to the duties of each member's
respective office. These appointments are significant as they help shape the administration's
policies and priorities.

In addition to the Cabinet positions, President Trump has also nominated individuals for other
important roles, such as Tulsi Gabbard for Director of National Intelligence and John Ratcliffe for
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. These positions are crucial for national security and
intelligence operations. The nominations reflect the President's choices for individuals he believes
will effectively lead these departments and agencies.

## President Trump Announces Sub-Cabinet Appointments (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

President Trump has announced a series of sub-cabinet appointments, nominating individuals to
various key positions within the U.S. government. These appointments include roles such as Assistant
Secretary of Defense, Director of the National Institutes of Health, and Deputy Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, among others. Each nominee is set to replace a predecessor who has
either resigned or whose term has expired.

The nominations cover a wide range of departments and agencies, reflecting a significant reshuffle
in the administration's leadership. For instance, Keith Bass from Texas is nominated as an Assistant
Secretary of Defense, while Jayanta Bhattacharya from California is nominated to lead the National
Institutes of Health. Other notable appointments include Frank Bisignano as Commissioner of Social
Security and Todd Blanche as Deputy Attorney General.

These appointments are part of the president's executive powers, where he nominates individuals to
serve in various governmental roles, subject to Senate confirmation. This process is crucial for
ensuring that the executive branch of the government is staffed with individuals who align with the
president's policy goals and administrative priorities.

## President Trump Announces Acting Cabinet and Cabinet-Level Positions (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order to appoint individuals to serve in
acting capacities for various cabinet and cabinet-level positions. This action is in accordance with
the U.S. Constitution and federal laws, specifically referencing 5 U.S.C. 3345, which allows for
temporary appointments to fill vacancies. The order lists individuals assigned to key roles such as
Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State, and Attorney General, among others, until permanent
appointments are made.

This move is part of President Trump's initial actions upon taking office, aiming to ensure that
essential government functions continue smoothly while permanent appointments are processed. The
list includes a wide range of positions across different departments, reflecting the
administration's immediate need to fill leadership roles to maintain government operations.

Overall, the executive order is a standard procedure for a new administration to temporarily fill
critical positions, ensuring that the government remains functional and responsive during the
transition period. This approach allows the administration to continue its work without interruption
while permanent candidates are vetted and confirmed.

## President Trump Designates Chairmen and Acting Chairmen (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

President Trump's executive order on January 20, 2025, designates several individuals to lead
various federal agencies and commissions. This order appoints Brendan Carr as Chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission, Mark Christie as Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, and Henry Kerner as Acting Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board, among others.
These appointments are significant as they place individuals in key positions that influence policy
and regulatory decisions across different sectors, including communications, energy, labor
relations, and civil rights.

The executive order is a directive from the President that manages operations within the federal
government. It is a tool used by the President to ensure that the laws are faithfully executed, as
mandated by the U.S. Constitution. While executive orders can direct federal agencies on how to
implement laws, they cannot create new laws or override existing ones. The appointments made through
this executive order reflect the administration's priorities and can significantly impact how
federal policies are shaped and enforced.

Overall, this executive order is part of the broader use of executive powers by the President to
manage the federal government's operations and ensure that the administration's policy goals are
pursued effectively. These appointments are crucial as they determine the leadership and direction
of important federal agencies, affecting various aspects of public policy and governance.

## Flying The Flag Of The United States At Full-Staff On Inauguration Day (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a U.S. presidential proclamation was issued to fly the American flag at
full-staff on Inauguration Day. This decision honors the significance of Inauguration Day and the
values it represents for the nation. The order mandates that the flag be flown at full-staff at the
White House, all public buildings, military posts, naval stations, and U.S. embassies worldwide for
the entire day. After Inauguration Day, the flag will return to half-staff to honor former President
Jimmy Carter, following a previous proclamation for a 30-day mourning period after his death.

## Initial Rescissions Of Harmful Executive Orders And Actions (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to revoke several executive actions from the
previous administration. The order claims that the previous administration's policies were
unpopular, inflationary, illegal, and radical. It criticizes the focus on diversity, equity, and
inclusion (DEI) as corrupting institutions by prioritizing preferential hierarchies over merit and
equality. The order also argues that open border policies and climate regulations have harmed
American safety and economic stability.

The executive order revokes numerous actions related to racial equity, COVID-19 response, climate
change, and other areas. It aims to restore what it describes as "common sense" to the federal
government and enhance American prosperity. The heads of federal agencies are instructed to end the
implementation of DEI ideologies and review previous actions for potential rescission or
replacement. The order emphasizes the need for a thorough review of national security memoranda to
ensure they align with American values and security.

The order outlines a process for implementing these changes, including a review by the Domestic
Policy Council and the National Economic Council. The overall goal is to repair institutions and the
economy by rolling back what the current administration views as harmful policies from the previous
administration.

## Restoring Freedom Of Speech And Ending Federal Censorship (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to restore freedom of speech and end federal
censorship. This order emphasizes the importance of the First Amendment, which protects the right of
Americans to speak freely without government interference. The order criticizes the previous
administration for allegedly censoring speech on online platforms by pressuring social media
companies to suppress content that did not align with the government's views. It argues that such
actions, under the pretense of combating misinformation, violated the free speech rights of American
citizens.

The executive order outlines a policy to protect free speech by ensuring that no federal government
official or taxpayer resources are used to unconstitutionally limit speech. It also calls for an
investigation into past government actions that may have suppressed protected speech, with the
Attorney General tasked to report findings and suggest corrective measures. The order aims to
prevent any federal department or employee from engaging in activities that contradict these
policies.

The overall goal is to safeguard free speech while addressing past government
misconduct related to censorship, ensuring that the government does not overstep its bounds in
regulating speech.

## Ending The Weaponization Of The Federal Government (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order aimed at ending what he
described as the "weaponization" of the federal government by the previous administration. This
order claims that the prior administration used federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to
target political opponents through investigations and prosecutions, actions that were allegedly more
about political gain than justice. The order highlights instances where individuals were targeted
for protesting or speaking out against the administration, and it criticizes the Department of
Justice for its handling of cases related to the January 6 events and Black Lives Matter protests.

The executive order sets a policy to identify and correct past misconduct by federal agencies. It
directs the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence to review the activities of
federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies over the past four years. They are tasked with
identifying any actions that contradict the order's purposes and recommending remedial actions. The
order also emphasizes compliance with document-retention policies and legal obligations, with
noncompliance referred to the Attorney General.

Overall, the order seeks to ensure accountability for what it describes as the misuse of federal
power by the previous administration. It aims to prevent similar actions in the future by reviewing
past activities and enforcing compliance with legal standards.

## Return to In-Person Work (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a memorandum was issued by the executive branch of the U.S. government,
directing all department and agency heads to end remote work arrangements and require employees to
return to in-person work at their duty stations on a full-time basis. However, the memorandum allows
for exemptions if deemed necessary by the department and agency heads. This directive is to be
implemented in accordance with applicable laws.

This action aligns with President Donald Trump's stance against remote work, which he had expressed
prior to taking office. The order is part of a broader set of executive actions taken by Trump
shortly after his inauguration, reflecting his campaign promises and policy priorities. The return
to in-person work is expected to face legal challenges, as some federal employees and unions
advocate for maintaining remote work options where necessary.

## Regulatory Freeze Pending Review (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, the President issued a memorandum to pause and review new regulations. This
order applies to all executive departments and agencies, instructing them not to propose or issue
any new rules until they are reviewed and approved by a department or agency head appointed by the
President. The memorandum also requires the withdrawal of any rules sent to the Office of the
Federal Register but not yet published, so they can be reviewed. Additionally, it suggests
postponing the effective date of any published rules that have not yet taken effect for 60 days to
allow for further review and public comment.

The memorandum defines "rules" broadly, including any regulatory actions or guidance documents that
could lead to a final rule or regulation. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director is
responsible for overseeing the implementation of this memorandum and can exempt rules necessary for
emergencies. The OMB Director can also establish a process to review pending information collections
under the Paperwork Reduction Act. If any actions taken before the memorandum's issuance undermine
its purpose, the President may modify or extend the memorandum to address those actions.

This regulatory freeze is a common practice for new administrations, allowing them to review and
potentially alter the regulatory landscape set by the previous administration. It aims to ensure
that new leadership has the opportunity to assess and align regulations with the current
administration's priorities. The memorandum emphasizes compliance with existing executive orders on
regulatory management and is to be implemented in accordance with applicable laws.

## Hiring Freeze (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, the President issued an order to freeze the hiring of federal civilian
employees across the executive branch. This means that any vacant federal civilian positions as of
noon on that day cannot be filled, and no new positions can be created unless specified by the
memorandum or other laws. However, this freeze does not affect military personnel or positions
related to immigration enforcement, national security, or public safety. Social Security, Medicare,
and Veterans' benefits will not be impacted by this freeze. The Director of the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) can grant exemptions if necessary.

Within 90 days, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in consultation with the
Director of OPM and the Administrator of the United States DOGE Service (USDS), must submit a plan
to reduce the federal workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition. Once this plan is
issued, the hiring freeze will end for all executive departments and agencies, except for the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The freeze for the IRS will continue until the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Administrator of USDS, decides it is in
the national interest to lift it. The memorandum also prohibits contracting outside the federal
government to bypass the freeze.

The memorandum encourages efficient use of existing personnel and funds to improve public services
and does not restrict reallocating resources to meet high-priority needs. It also does not limit the
appointment of officials to positions requiring Presidential appointment or Senate confirmation, nor
does it affect non-career positions or temporary hiring authority. Additionally, it does not
override any existing collective bargaining agreements.

## Delivering Emergency Price Relief for American Families and Defeating the Cost-of-Living Crisis (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

President Trump has issued a directive aimed at providing emergency price relief to American
families to combat the cost-of-living crisis. This directive criticizes the previous Biden
Administration for causing inflation through excessive government spending and regulations that
limited the availability of essential goods and services. The directive highlights the increased
costs of energy, housing, and other necessities, attributing these to regulatory burdens and
policies that have weakened American production.

To address these issues, the directive orders executive departments and agencies to take actions to
lower housing costs, reduce healthcare expenses, and eliminate regulations that increase the cost of
home appliances. It also aims to create more job opportunities and remove policies that raise food
and fuel prices. The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy is tasked with reporting on the
progress of these initiatives every 30 days.

The directive emphasizes the need to restore purchasing power and improve the quality of life for
American families. However, it has been noted that the directive lacks specific policy changes and
concrete actions, relying instead on broad instructions to executive agencies. The focus is on
reducing regulatory costs and expanding housing supply, but the details on how these goals will be
achieved remain vague.

## Putting America First In International Environmental Agreements (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order titled "Putting America First in
International Environmental Agreements." This order emphasizes the need for the United States to
prioritize its economic interests and the well-being of its citizens while engaging in international
environmental agreements. The order criticizes past agreements for not aligning with American values
and for directing taxpayer money to countries that may not need it. As a result, the order mandates
the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement and other similar commitments under the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).

The executive order outlines several immediate actions, including notifying the United Nations of
the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement and ceasing any financial commitments related to the
UNFCCC. It also revokes the U.S. International Climate Finance Plan and requires various federal
agencies to report on their actions to rescind policies supporting this plan. The order further
directs that future international energy agreements prioritize economic efficiency and American
prosperity.

This move marks a significant shift in U.S. international environmental policy, focusing on reducing
perceived economic burdens from global climate agreements. The decision to withdraw from the Paris
Agreement may impact international relations and the global climate initiative's viability. It
reflects the administration's broader strategy to enhance American energy dominance and reconsider
regulations affecting domestic energy production.

## Granting Pardons And Commutation Of Sentences For Certain Offenses Relating To The Events At Or Near The United States Capitol On January 6, 2021 (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Donald Trump issued a proclamation granting clemency to individuals
involved in the January 6, 2021, Capitol attack. This action was described as ending a "grave
national injustice" and aimed to start a process of national reconciliation. The proclamation
included two main actions: commuting the sentences of 14 named individuals to time served and
granting full pardons to all others convicted of offenses related to the events at the Capitol on
that day.

The Attorney General was instructed to issue pardon certificates and ensure the immediate release of
those affected. Additionally, all pending indictments related to the January 6 events were to be
dismissed. This decision was controversial and sparked a wide range of reactions. Some viewed it as
an abuse of power and a dangerous precedent, while others saw it as a necessary step towards healing
the nation. The pardons were met with criticism from various political figures and organizations,
including law enforcement groups and members of both political parties.

## Application Of Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act To TikTok (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 20, 2025, by the President of the United States addresses the
application of the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act to
TikTok. This Act aims to regulate applications controlled by foreign adversaries, specifically
targeting TikTok and its parent company, ByteDance Ltd., due to national security concerns. The Act
prohibits the distribution, maintenance, or updating of such applications within the U.S. through
online stores or hosting services. These prohibitions took effect on January 19, 2025, just before
the new President took office.

The President has expressed concerns about the timing of the Act's enforcement, which interferes
with the ability to assess its national security implications and negotiate a resolution to prevent
TikTok's abrupt shutdown. To address this, the President has ordered a 75-day pause on enforcing the
Act, allowing time to evaluate the situation and determine a suitable course of action. During this
period, the Department of Justice will not enforce the Act or impose penalties for noncompliance.
The Attorney General is instructed to issue guidance and letters to providers, ensuring no liability
for actions taken during this pause.

The executive order emphasizes the President's responsibility for national security and foreign
policy, highlighting the need for a careful review of TikTok's impact on national security. The
order also asserts the exclusive authority of the Executive Branch to enforce the Act, preventing
states or private parties from attempting enforcement. This pause aims to balance national security
concerns with the continued availability of a platform used by millions of Americans.

## Withdrawing The United States From The World Health Organization (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order to withdraw the United States from
the World Health Organization (WHO). This decision was based on criticisms of the WHO's handling of
the COVID-19 pandemic and other global health crises, as well as concerns about the organization's
political independence and financial demands on the U.S. The order revokes previous actions that had
retracted the U.S.'s withdrawal notice and calls for halting U.S. funding and support to the WHO,
recalling U.S. personnel, and finding alternative partners to take over WHO's roles.

The executive order outlines several actions, including revoking a previous executive order related
to COVID-19 response and establishing new mechanisms within the National Security Council to protect
public health. It also directs the Secretary of State to notify the United Nations and WHO
leadership of the withdrawal and to stop negotiations on the WHO Pandemic Agreement.

The withdrawal from WHO could have significant implications for global health and U.S. influence in
international health matters. The U.S. has been a major contributor to WHO, providing financial
support and technical expertise. Without U.S. involvement, there may be challenges in global health
coordination, disease surveillance, and response to health emergencies. The decision also reflects a
broader shift in U.S. foreign policy towards a more unilateral approach.

## Restoring Accountability To Policy-Influencing Positions Within the Federal Workforce (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to restore accountability in policy-influencing
positions within the federal workforce. The order highlights the President's authority over the
executive branch and emphasizes the need for professionalism and accountability among federal
employees, especially those in positions that influence policy. It points out that many supervisors
lack confidence in their ability to remove employees for misconduct or poor performance, which
undermines accountability. The order reinstates a previous policy, known as Schedule F, which
reclassifies certain federal employees to make it easier to remove them if they do not align with
the administration's policies.

The executive order makes several amendments to the previous policy, renaming Schedule F to Schedule
Policy/Career and specifying that employees in these positions must implement administration
policies faithfully, regardless of personal or political beliefs. The order also revokes a previous
executive order that protected federal workforce rights and directs the Office of Personnel
Management to amend regulations that conflict with the new order. Additionally, it requires the
identification of more positions that should be considered for the new classification, aiming to
ensure that those in policy-influencing roles are directly accountable to the President.

Overall, the executive order seeks to streamline the process of holding federal employees
accountable, particularly those in influential positions, by reinstating and modifying a previous
policy. It aims to ensure that these employees are aligned with the administration's goals and can
be removed if they fail to implement policies effectively. This move has sparked debate about the
potential for increased political influence over traditionally apolitical civil service roles.

## Holding Former Government Officials Accountable For Election Interference And Improper Disclosure Of Sensitive Governmental Information (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to hold former government officials accountable
for election interference and improper disclosure of sensitive information. This order was a
response to actions taken during the 2020 Presidential campaign, where 51 former intelligence
officials coordinated with the Biden campaign to discredit a news story about President Biden's son.
The letter they issued falsely suggested the story was Russian disinformation, and it was reviewed
by the CIA before publication. This misuse of intelligence authority was seen as a breach of trust
and an attempt to manipulate the political process.

The executive order also addressed the issue of classified information being disclosed for personal
gain. Former National Security Advisor John R. Bolton published a memoir containing sensitive
information, which was seen as undermining national security and the ability of future presidents to
receive candid advice. To address these issues, the order revoked the security clearances of the
involved former intelligence officials and John R. Bolton. It emphasized that the Intelligence
Community should not engage in partisan politics or use security clearances to influence elections.

The order directed the Director of National Intelligence and the CIA to revoke the clearances of
specific individuals and report any further inappropriate activities within 90 days. It also
outlined policies to prevent future misuse of intelligence for political purposes and the improper
disclosure of classified information. The order aimed to restore trust in the Intelligence Community
and ensure that national security information is handled responsibly.

## Declaring A National Emergency At The Southern Border Of The United States (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Donald Trump declared a national emergency at the southern border of
the United States. He cited threats from cartels, criminal gangs, terrorists, human traffickers, and
smugglers as reasons for this action. The proclamation states that these threats have caused chaos
and suffering in the U.S., leading to deaths from drug overdoses and violence. To address this, the
President has ordered the use of the U.S. Armed Forces to support the Department of Homeland
Security in securing the border.

The proclamation outlines several actions to be taken. It directs the deployment of military
personnel and resources to assist in controlling the border. This includes constructing additional
physical barriers and using unmanned aerial systems to monitor the area. The proclamation also calls
for revising policies to prevent unauthorized entry and ensure the safety of law enforcement and
military personnel. Additionally, it revokes a previous proclamation that terminated the emergency
status and redirected funds for border wall construction.

The declaration emphasizes the President's responsibility to protect U.S. citizens and uphold the
law. It requires reports from the Department of Defense and Homeland Security on actions taken and
conditions at the border.

## Memorandum to Resolve the Backlog of Security Clearances for Executive Office of the President Personnel (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The memorandum addresses a backlog in processing security clearances for personnel in the Executive
Office of the President, which has been causing delays in their ability to perform their duties.
This backlog was created during the Biden Administration and has resulted in some individuals being
unable to access necessary facilities and technology. To resolve this issue, the President has
ordered that certain personnel be granted interim Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information
(TS/SCI) security clearances for up to six months. This will allow them immediate access to the
resources they need to fulfill their roles.

The White House Counsel is tasked with providing a list of these individuals to the White House
Security Office and Acting Chief Security Officer. The Counsel also has the authority to add more
names to this list as needed and can revoke any interim clearances if necessary.

Overall, this action aims to expedite the security clearance process for essential personnel,
ensuring that they can carry out their responsibilities without unnecessary delays. The President is
using his authority to bypass the traditional, slower clearance procedures temporarily, highlighting
the importance of efficiency in government operations.

## America First Trade Policy (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The "America First Trade Policy" memorandum, issued on January 20, 2025, outlines a comprehensive
review of U.S. trade and economic policies. The memorandum emphasizes prioritizing American economic
interests, national security, and reducing dependency on foreign nations. It directs various
government departments to investigate the causes of persistent trade deficits, unfair trade
practices, and the impact of existing trade agreements. The memorandum also calls for exploring the
feasibility of creating an External Revenue Service to collect tariffs and duties, and reviewing
currency exchange rates to ensure fair trade practices.

The memorandum specifically addresses trade relations with China, instructing the United States
Trade Representative to review the Economic and Trade Agreement with China and assess any unfair
trade practices. It also calls for a review of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to
evaluate its impact on American workers and businesses. Additionally, the memorandum mandates a
review of the U.S. industrial and manufacturing base to assess national security threats and
recommends measures to counter currency manipulation by trading partners.

Overall, the memorandum aims to strengthen U.S. trade policies by promoting investment,
productivity, and technological advantages while protecting American workers and businesses. It sets
deadlines for various reports and recommendations to be submitted to the President by April 2025,
ensuring a coordinated approach to addressing trade-related challenges and enhancing economic
security.

## Clarifying The Military’s Role In Protecting The Territorial Integrity Of The United States (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to clarify the role of the U.S. military in
protecting the country's borders. The President emphasized the importance of safeguarding the
nation's sovereignty and territorial integrity, particularly along the national borders. The order
highlights the ongoing threats to U.S. sovereignty, such as unlawful mass migration and drug
trafficking, and underscores the military's historical role in defending against such threats.

The order directs the Secretary of Defense to revise the Unified Command Plan within ten days,
assigning the U.S. Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) the mission to secure the borders. This includes
preventing unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling, and other criminal
activities. The plan requires USNORTHCOM to provide continuous assessments and develop strategies to
maintain border security and protect national sovereignty.

## Unleashing American Energy (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to boost American energy production and reduce
regulatory burdens that have been seen as obstacles to energy development. The order emphasizes the
importance of utilizing America's abundant energy resources to enhance economic prosperity and
national security. It aims to encourage energy exploration on federal lands and waters, establish
the U.S. as a leader in non-fuel mineral production, and ensure a reliable energy supply across the
nation. The order also seeks to eliminate mandates and subsidies that favor electric vehicles,
promoting consumer choice and competition in the market.

The executive order calls for a review of existing regulations that may hinder domestic energy
development, with a focus on oil, natural gas, coal, and other resources. It revokes several
previous executive orders related to climate change and environmental regulations, aiming to
streamline the permitting process for energy projects. The order also disbands the Interagency
Working Group on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases, criticizing its methodologies and impact on
regulatory decisions. Additionally, it pauses funding for green energy projects under the Inflation
Reduction Act and Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, pending a review to ensure alignment with
the new policy goals.

Overall, the order seeks to prioritize American energy independence and economic growth by reducing
regulatory barriers and promoting efficient permitting processes. It emphasizes the need for a
balanced approach to energy policy that considers both domestic and international impacts, while
also safeguarding national security and supporting American workers and businesses.

## Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to realign the United States Refugee Admissions
Program (USRAP). This order suspends the program due to the high levels of migration that have
overwhelmed various U.S. cities and towns. The suspension aims to ensure that the entry of refugees
aligns with the national interests, focusing on public safety, national security, and the proper
assimilation of refugees. The order also emphasizes the need to preserve resources for American
citizens and suggests that state and local governments should have a say in refugee placements
within their jurisdictions.

The executive order mandates that the entry of refugees under the USRAP is halted until further
notice, with exceptions allowed on a case-by-case basis if deemed in the national interest. The
Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State are tasked with reviewing the situation
every 90 days to determine if resuming the program would benefit the United States. Additionally,
the order revokes a previous executive order from 2021 that aimed to enhance the refugee program and
address climate change-related migration.

This suspension of the USRAP represents a significant shift in U.S. refugee policy, potentially
delaying future refugee arrivals and altering the longstanding federal authority over refugee
admissions. The order underscores the importance of involving state and local jurisdictions in
resettlement decisions, which could lead to changes in how refugees are placed across the country.
The overall goal is to ensure that refugee admissions do not compromise the safety, security, and
resources of American communities.

## Protecting The Meaning And Value Of American Citizenship (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to redefine the criteria for birthright
citizenship in the United States. The order emphasizes that U.S. citizenship is a valuable privilege
and aims to restrict automatic citizenship for certain individuals born in the U.S. Specifically, it
targets children born to mothers who are either unlawfully present in the U.S. or temporarily
present (such as on a tourist or student visa) if the father is not a U.S. citizen or lawful
permanent resident. This order seeks to ensure that citizenship is not automatically granted in
these cases, aligning with a specific interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment.

The policy outlined in the executive order prevents federal agencies from issuing or recognizing
documents that confer U.S. citizenship to individuals falling under the specified categories. This
policy is set to apply to individuals born in the U.S. after 30 days from the order's issuance.
However, it does not affect the citizenship rights of children born to lawful permanent residents.
The order also mandates that relevant government departments align their regulations and policies
with this new directive and provide public guidance on its implementation.

This executive order has sparked legal challenges, with critics arguing that it contradicts the
Fourteenth Amendment, which has historically granted citizenship to anyone born on U.S. soil,
regardless of their parents' immigration status. Legal actions have been taken to block the order,
with courts issuing preliminary injunctions to prevent its implementation. The controversy centers
around the interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment and the potential implications for children
born in the U.S. under the new criteria.

## Securing Our Borders (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to secure the borders of the United States.
The order highlights the challenges faced over the past four years, including the entry of millions
of illegal immigrants, some of whom may pose threats such as terrorism or involvement in criminal
organizations. The order emphasizes the need to protect the nation by stopping illegal immigration
and the flow of illicit materials across the border. It outlines a policy to use all available
resources to secure the borders, including building physical barriers, detaining illegal immigrants,
and cooperating with state and local law enforcement.

The order specifies several actions to achieve these goals. It calls for the construction of
physical barriers along the southern border and the deployment of personnel to ensure control. It
also mandates the detention of illegal immigrants until they are removed from the country and the
resumption of the Migrant Protection Protocols. Additionally, it seeks to adjust parole policies and
enhance international cooperation to manage immigration more effectively. The order also includes
measures to prioritize the prosecution of border-related offenses and to ensure the use of DNA and
identification technologies for detained individuals.

Overall, the executive order aims to strengthen border security and enforce immigration laws more
strictly. It seeks to address the challenges posed by illegal immigration by implementing a
comprehensive approach that includes physical barriers, increased personnel, and legal measures. The
order underscores the importance of protecting national security and public safety by controlling
the borders and managing immigration effectively.

## Putting People Over Fish: Stopping Radical Environmentalism to Provide Water to Southern California (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

President Trump issued a memorandum directing the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the
Interior to restart efforts from his previous administration to redirect water from the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to Central and Southern California. This action aims to provide a more
reliable water supply to these regions, which have been affected by wildfires and water scarcity.
The memorandum criticizes previous environmental regulations that protected fish species like the
Delta smelt, arguing that these rules have led to water being wasted by flowing into the Pacific
Ocean instead of being used for human needs.

During Trump's first term, California's government opposed his water infrastructure plans, citing
environmental concerns. The recent memorandum emphasizes the need to prioritize human water needs
over environmental protections, especially in light of the destructive wildfires in Southern
California. Trump has given the Secretaries 90 days to report on the progress of implementing these
policies and to provide recommendations for future actions.

The memorandum has sparked controversy, with environmental groups and some officials arguing that it
overlooks the ecological importance of the Delta and its species. Critics also point out that the
current water management rules, developed under the Biden and Newsom administrations, aim to balance
water distribution while protecting the environment. These rules reportedly provide more water to
Southern California than Trump's previous regulations. The debate highlights ongoing tensions
between environmental conservation and resource management in California.

## Restoring The Death Penalty And Protecting Public Safety (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order titled "Restoring the Death Penalty and Protecting Public Safety" was issued by
the President on January 20, 2025. It emphasizes the importance of capital punishment as a deterrent
and punishment for severe crimes. The order criticizes previous actions by politicians and judges,
particularly those by President Biden, who had placed a moratorium on federal executions and
commuted the sentences of several individuals on death row. The order argues that such actions
undermine justice and the laws of the United States, which have historically supported capital
punishment for the most heinous crimes.

The order outlines several directives for the Attorney General, including pursuing the death penalty
for severe crimes, especially those involving the murder of law enforcement officers or crimes
committed by illegal aliens. It also calls for efforts to overturn Supreme Court precedents that
limit the use of capital punishment and to ensure states have the necessary resources to carry out
executions. Additionally, the order emphasizes the need for coordination between federal and state
law enforcement to protect communities from violent crime.

Overall, the executive order seeks to reinforce the use of the death penalty in the United States,
counteracting previous efforts to limit its application. It highlights the administration's
commitment to upholding laws that authorize capital punishment and ensuring that justice is served
for victims of violent crimes. The order also addresses logistical aspects, such as ensuring the
availability of drugs for lethal injections and evaluating the conditions of confinement for those
whose sentences were commuted.

## Promoting Beautiful Federal Civic Architecture (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The memorandum issued on January 20, 2025, directs the Administrator of the General Services
Administration (GSA) to work with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and other
relevant department heads to propose recommendations within 60 days. These recommendations aim to
ensure that federal public buildings are easily recognizable as civic structures and honor regional,
traditional, and classical architectural styles. The goal is to enhance public spaces and reflect
the dignity of the United States and its governance system. The recommendations should also consider
revising the Guiding Principles for Federal Architecture and include community input in the design
process.

If the GSA Administrator plans to approve a design for a new federal building that does not align
with this policy before the recommendations are submitted, they must notify the President at least
30 days in advance. This notification should explain why the design is being considered, allowing
time for potential rejection without incurring significant costs. This approach emphasizes the
importance of maintaining architectural standards that resonate with the public and uphold the
nation's values.

## Restoring Accountability for Career Senior Executives (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The memorandum from January 20, 2025, focuses on ensuring that Career Senior Executive Service (SES)
officials are held accountable for their roles in the U.S. government. These officials have
significant influence over government operations and must align with the President's agenda to
ensure the laws are executed faithfully. The President has the authority to remove SES officials if
they fail to meet their responsibilities, such as unauthorized disclosures or inefficient
performance.

To enhance accountability, the memorandum outlines several actions. Within 30 days, the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) must issue performance
plans for SES officials. Agency heads are instructed to use their authority to prioritize
accountability, reassign SES members to align with the President's agenda, and restructure existing
boards to ensure performance evaluations are enforced. If an SES official's performance is
inconsistent with their duties, agency heads must take appropriate actions, including removal.

Overall, the memorandum emphasizes the importance of a responsive and accountable government
workforce. It aims to restore a government that serves the people by ensuring that SES officials are
effectively managed and held accountable for their performance, aligning with the President's goals
and the nation's needs.

## Declaring a National Energy Emergency (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, the President declared a national energy emergency due to the United States'
inadequate energy supply and infrastructure. This situation has led to high energy prices, affecting
Americans, especially those with low incomes. The emergency declaration aims to address these issues
by enhancing domestic energy production and infrastructure, reducing reliance on foreign energy, and
improving national security. The order emphasizes the need for a reliable and affordable energy
supply to support various sectors, including manufacturing, transportation, and defense.

The executive order directs federal agencies to use all available legal authorities to expedite
energy projects and infrastructure development. This includes identifying and utilizing domestic
energy resources, facilitating energy transportation and refining, and addressing vulnerabilities in
the energy sector. The order also calls for emergency fuel waivers and the use of emergency
provisions under environmental laws to support energy supply. The goal is to create jobs, improve
the trade balance, and strengthen international relations by leveraging the United States' energy
resources.

Additionally, the order outlines specific actions for federal agencies, such as assessing the
Department of Defense's energy needs and vulnerabilities, and coordinating infrastructure
assistance. It also includes provisions for emergency consultations under the Endangered Species Act
and the Clean Water Act to facilitate energy projects. The overall aim is to ensure the United
States can meet its energy demands, maintain technological innovation, and protect national
security.

## Temporary Withdrawal of All Areas on the Outer Continental Shelf from Offshore Wind Leasing and Review of the Federal Government’s Leasing and Permitting Practices for Wind Projects (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a memorandum was issued to temporarily stop all new or renewed offshore wind
energy leasing on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). This decision aims to ensure responsible
management of public resources, considering factors like energy needs, marine life, and the fishing
industry. The memorandum does not affect existing leases but requires a review of their ecological
and economic impacts. This pause will remain until the memorandum is revoked.

Additionally, the memorandum calls for a comprehensive review of federal wind leasing and permitting
practices due to potential legal and environmental issues. This review will assess the impact of
wind projects on wildlife and the economic costs of wind energy. During this review, no new
approvals or permits for wind projects will be issued. The memorandum also addresses concerns about
the Lava Ridge Wind Project, placing a temporary halt on related activities and requiring further
analysis of its impacts.

## Reevaluating And Realigning United States Foreign Aid (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order to reevaluate and realign U.S.
foreign aid. The order states that the current foreign aid system does not align with American
interests and often contradicts American values, potentially destabilizing global peace. The policy
mandates that U.S. foreign assistance must align with the President's foreign policy. To ensure this
alignment, a 90-day pause on new foreign aid obligations and disbursements has been implemented.
During this period, all foreign aid programs will be reviewed for efficiency and consistency with
U.S. foreign policy. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) will enforce this pause, and the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the OMB, will oversee the reviews and make decisions on
whether to continue, modify, or cease each program.

The executive order allows for the resumption of paused aid if a program is reviewed and deemed
consistent with U.S. policy before the 90-day period ends. The Secretary of State can also waive the
pause for specific programs. This reevaluation aims to ensure that foreign aid spending benefits
American interests, making the country safer, stronger, and more prosperous.

The implementation of this order has led to a halt in many foreign aid programs, including those
related to global health, such as PEPFAR. While some waivers have been granted, the pause has caused
disruptions in aid delivery and affected many international projects. The order reflects a broader
effort to align foreign aid with national interests and reduce spending on programs deemed
inconsistent with U.S. values and priorities.

## Organization of the National Security Council and Subcommittees (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The memorandum outlines the organization and responsibilities of the National Security Council (NSC)
and its subcommittees, emphasizing the importance of adapting to complex and evolving national
security threats. The President prioritizes the safety and security of the United States and its
people, recognizing that these threats often require integrated solutions that go beyond the
capabilities of individual departments and agencies. To address these challenges, the NSC is
structured to coordinate and integrate domestic, foreign, and military policies, with the President
chairing the council and appointing a Cabinet-level official in his absence.

The NSC includes statutory members such as the President, Vice President, and various Secretaries,
along with additional members designated by the President. The National Security Advisor plays a key
role in setting the agenda and ensuring the preparation of necessary documents. The NSC can also
convene as the Homeland Security Council (HSC) for specific topics, with the Homeland Security
Advisor assuming similar responsibilities. The memorandum also establishes the Principals Committee
and Deputies Committee as forums for interagency coordination and decision-making on national
security issues, with the National Security Advisor and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
chairing these committees, respectively.

Policy Coordination Committees (PCCs) are tasked with managing the development and implementation of
national security policies across multiple departments and agencies. These committees ensure timely
responses and integration of Presidential decisions. The memorandum supersedes previous directives
related to the NSC's organization, emphasizing the need for a comprehensive and adaptive approach to
national security policy development and implementation.

## The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Global Tax Deal (Global Tax Deal) (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The memorandum addresses the OECD Global Tax Deal, which was supported by the previous U.S.
administration. This deal allows foreign countries to have jurisdiction over American income and
limits the U.S.'s ability to create tax policies that benefit its businesses and workers. The
current administration is rejecting this deal, stating that it has no effect in the U.S. unless
Congress enacts it. This move is intended to protect American economic interests and sovereignty.

The memorandum instructs the Secretary of the Treasury and the U.S. Trade Representative to notify
the OECD that any commitments made by the previous administration regarding the Global Tax Deal are
not valid in the U.S. without Congressional approval. Additionally, they are tasked with identifying
foreign tax practices that unfairly impact American companies and recommending protective measures
to the President within 60 days. This approach aims to ensure that U.S. tax policies prioritize
national interests and protect American businesses from unfair international tax practices.

## Protecting The American People Against Invasion (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to address illegal immigration in the United
States. The order claims that the previous administration allowed a significant increase in illegal
immigration, which has led to security and financial issues. The order emphasizes the importance of
enforcing immigration laws to protect national security and public safety. It aims to ensure that
the federal government prioritizes the interests and safety of American citizens by strictly
enforcing immigration laws against inadmissible and removable aliens, especially those posing
threats to safety and security.

The executive order outlines several key actions to achieve its goals. It revokes previous executive
orders related to immigration policies and directs federal agencies to revoke any related guidance
or policies. The order also establishes priorities for civil and criminal enforcement, including the
prosecution of offenses related to unauthorized entry and presence in the U.S. It calls for the
creation of Homeland Security Task Forces to combat criminal organizations and human trafficking.
Additionally, the order mandates the identification and compliance of unregistered illegal aliens
with legal obligations and the assessment of fines and penalties for those unlawfully present in the
country.

Furthermore, the order includes measures to enhance the removal process of illegal aliens, expand
detention facilities, and authorize state and local law enforcement to assist in immigration
enforcement. It also addresses funding for non-governmental organizations that support illegal
aliens, aiming to ensure compliance with immigration laws. The order seeks to deny public benefits
to illegal aliens and increase the number of immigration officers. It also emphasizes the importance
of information sharing among federal, state, and local agencies to combat human trafficking and
smuggling. Overall, the order aims to strengthen immigration enforcement and prioritize the safety
and security of American citizens.

## Unleashing Alaska’s Extraordinary Resource Potential (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to unlock Alaska's vast natural resources,
including energy, minerals, timber, and seafood. The order aims to boost the U.S. economy and
national security by fully utilizing these resources. It seeks to reverse previous restrictions on
resource development in Alaska, particularly those imposed by the prior administration. The policy
focuses on maximizing resource development on both federal and state lands, expediting permits and
leases for energy projects, and prioritizing the development of Alaska's liquefied natural gas (LNG)
potential for domestic and international markets.

The executive order directs various federal agencies to take specific actions to align with this
policy. These actions include rescinding or revising regulations that hinder resource development,
prioritizing LNG projects, and initiating new leasing in areas like the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge. The order also calls for a review of environmental impact statements and land-use decisions
to facilitate resource extraction. Additionally, it emphasizes the importance of considering
Alaska's cultural significance in hunting and fishing and ensuring that federal land management
aligns with state opportunities.

Overall, the order positions Alaska as a key component of the administration's energy strategy,
aiming to create jobs, reduce energy costs, and strengthen national energy security. It encourages
streamlined processes for businesses involved in Alaskan projects but also anticipates potential
legal and environmental challenges. The order reflects a broader agenda to enhance domestic energy
production and reduce regulatory barriers, aligning with the administration's focus on energy
reliability and security.

## Protecting The United States From Foreign Terrorists And Other National Security And Public Safety Threats (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 20, 2025, aims to protect the United States from foreign
terrorists and other national security threats. It emphasizes the need for strict screening and
vetting of individuals seeking to enter the U.S. to ensure they do not pose a threat to national
security or public safety. The order mandates federal agencies to enhance their immigration
screening processes and restore previous vetting standards to identify and prevent potential threats
before they enter the country.

The order requires the Secretary of State, Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and
Director of National Intelligence to collaborate in identifying resources for maximum vetting and
screening of aliens. They must determine necessary information from other countries to assess visa
applications and establish a uniform baseline for screening standards. Additionally, the order calls
for identifying countries with deficient vetting information that may warrant suspending admissions
from those nations.

Furthermore, the order outlines additional measures to protect the nation, such as evaluating visa
programs for security vulnerabilities, ensuring stringent identification verification for refugees,
and promoting the assimilation of lawful immigrants into American society. It also stresses the
importance of safeguarding constitutional rights and preventing foreign nationals from undermining
American values.

## America First Policy Directive To The Secretary Of State (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The "America First Policy Directive to the Secretary of State" is an executive order issued on
January 20, 2025, by the President of the United States. The main goal of this order is to ensure
that the foreign policy of the United States prioritizes American interests and citizens. The
directive instructs the Secretary of State to align the Department of State's policies and
operations with this America First approach as soon as possible.

Overall, this executive order is part of a broader policy shift to prioritize American interests in
international relations, ensuring that all foreign policy decisions are made with the primary goal
of benefiting the United States and its citizens. The directive is to be implemented in accordance
with existing laws and available resources.

## Establishing And Implementing The President’s “Department Of Government Efficiency” (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an Executive Order was issued to establish the Department of Government
Efficiency (DOGE) to modernize federal technology and improve government efficiency. This initiative
involves renaming the United States Digital Service to the United States DOGE Service (USDS), which
will be part of the Executive Office of the President. A temporary organization within USDS will
focus on advancing the President's 18-month DOGE agenda, set to end on July 4, 2026. Each federal
agency will form a DOGE Team to work with USDS on implementing this agenda, aiming to enhance
software and IT systems across the government.

The Executive Order outlines a Software Modernization Initiative led by the USDS Administrator to
improve software quality and interoperability between agency systems. Agency Heads are required to
ensure USDS has access to necessary records and systems, adhering to strict data protection
standards. The order also overrides previous executive orders that might hinder USDS's access to
agency systems. This initiative is designed to maximize efficiency and productivity by modernizing
federal technology infrastructure.

## Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism And Restoring Biological Truth To The Federal Government (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 20, 2025, aims to reinforce the recognition of biological sex
as the basis for federal policies and laws, distinguishing it from gender identity. It asserts that
there are only two sexes, male and female, which are immutable and grounded in biological reality.
The order criticizes what it calls "gender ideology," which it claims undermines the biological
reality of sex by allowing individuals to self-identify their gender, thus affecting laws and
policies designed to protect sex-based opportunities. The administration plans to use clear language
and policies to ensure that women are recognized as biologically female and men as biologically
male.

The order outlines specific policies and definitions to be used by federal agencies, emphasizing
that "sex" refers to an individual's biological classification and is not synonymous with "gender
identity." It mandates that federal agencies enforce laws protecting sex-based rights and ensure
that government-issued identification documents accurately reflect an individual's biological sex.
The order also calls for the removal of any federal support or funding for gender ideology and
requires agencies to cease issuing statements or policies that promote it. Additionally, it seeks to
correct what it views as a misapplication of the Supreme Court's decision in Bostock v. Clayton
County, which extended workplace protections to include gender identity.

The order further directs federal agencies to ensure that intimate spaces, such as prisons and
shelters, are designated by biological sex rather than gender identity. It rescinds previous
executive orders and guidance that supported gender identity recognition and mandates that federal
agencies prioritize the enforcement of sex-based distinctions. The order also requires agencies to
report on their implementation progress and to ensure that federal funds are not used to promote
gender ideology. Overall, the order represents a significant policy shift towards reinforcing
traditional definitions of sex and limiting the recognition of gender identity within federal
programs and policies.

## Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, a new executive order was issued to end diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI)
programs in the federal government. The order claims that these programs, introduced during the
Biden Administration, led to illegal and immoral discrimination and wasted public resources. The
order mandates the termination of all DEI-related programs and policies across federal agencies,
emphasizing a return to merit-based practices that reward individual skills and performance without
considering DEI factors.

The implementation of this order involves several key actions. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), along with the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM), is tasked with coordinating the termination of DEI programs. Each
federal agency must terminate DEI offices and positions, and provide a list of existing DEI-related
activities and expenditures. The order also requires an assessment of the impact and cost of
previous DEI initiatives and recommends actions to align with the new policy of equal dignity and
respect for all individuals.

The order further establishes a monthly meeting led by the Assistant to the President for Domestic
Policy to monitor progress and discuss barriers to compliance. It aims to ensure that federal
resources are used effectively and that all individuals are treated with equal dignity and respect.

## Reforming The Federal Hiring Process And Restoring Merit To Government Service (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 20, 2025, aims to reform the federal hiring process to ensure
that the U.S. government attracts highly skilled and dedicated civil servants. The current hiring
practices are seen as outdated and not focused on merit, practical skills, or dedication to the
Constitution. The order emphasizes that hiring should not be influenced by factors like race, sex,
or religion, and aims to prevent discrimination disguised as equity or gender identity
considerations. The goal is to create a more efficient hiring process that attracts the best
candidates to serve the nation effectively.

A Federal Hiring Plan is to be developed within 120 days, focusing on recruiting individuals
committed to improving government efficiency and upholding American values. The plan includes
several key initiatives: reducing the time-to-hire to under 80 days, improving communication with
candidates, integrating modern technology in the hiring process, and ensuring active participation
from agency leadership. It also aims to improve the allocation of Senior Executive Service positions
across various agencies to support democratic leadership.

The order also outlines accountability measures, requiring the Office of Personnel Management to
establish performance metrics and regularly consult with agencies to monitor progress. The overall
aim is to restore merit-based hiring and ensure the federal workforce is equipped to achieve
American greatness.

## Designating Cartels And Other Organizations As Foreign Terrorist Organizations And Specially Designated Global Terrorists (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 20, 2025, by the President of the United States aims to
classify certain international cartels and organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs)
or Specially Designated Global Terrorists (SDGTs). This action is based on the authority granted by
the U.S. Constitution and laws such as the Immigration and Nationality Act and the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act. The order identifies these cartels as significant threats to national
security, citing their involvement in violent activities, drug trafficking, and their influence over
illegal border traffic. The order also highlights the cartels' control over parts of Mexico, where
they operate like quasi-governments, posing a risk to U.S. safety and international stability.

The executive order outlines a policy to eliminate the presence and influence of these organizations
in the United States. It mandates the Secretary of State, in collaboration with other key officials,
to recommend which cartels should be designated as FTOs or SDGTs. Additionally, the Attorney General
and Secretary of Homeland Security are tasked with preparing for potential actions under the Alien
Enemies Act, which could involve the removal of individuals associated with these organizations. The
order emphasizes that it should be implemented in accordance with existing laws and does not create
any new legal rights for individuals or entities.

Overall, this executive order represents a significant step in the U.S. government's efforts to
combat the threats posed by international cartels and similar organizations. By designating them as
terrorist entities, the order seeks to disrupt their operations and reduce their impact on U.S.
national security and public safety. However, it also raises concerns about the potential
implications for individuals and organizations that may inadvertently become involved with these
designated groups.

## Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

On January 20, 2025, an executive order was issued to restore names that honor American historical
figures and achievements. The order emphasizes the importance of celebrating the nation's heritage
by naming national landmarks after visionary and patriotic Americans. It directs the U.S. Board on
Geographic Names to review and potentially replace its members to ensure that naming policies align
with this goal. The order also reinstates the name "Mount McKinley" for North America's highest
peak, reversing a previous decision to rename it Denali, and directs the Secretary of the Interior
to update official records accordingly.

Additionally, the order renames the Gulf of Mexico to the "Gulf of America," highlighting its
significance to the U.S. economy and history. This change is intended to reflect the Gulf's role in
American trade, energy production, and maritime activities. The Secretary of the Interior is tasked
with updating federal documents to reflect this new name and ensuring consistency across government
references.

The executive order also allows for public input on additional naming changes to honor American
patriots, particularly in light of the upcoming 250th anniversary of the United States.

## Guaranteeing The States Protection Against Invasion (Presidential Actions, January 20, 2025)

The proclamation by President Donald J. Trump addresses the issue of illegal immigration at the
southern border of the United States. It highlights the challenges faced by the federal government
in managing the influx of illegal aliens, which has overwhelmed the existing immigration system. The
proclamation emphasizes the constitutional duty of the federal government to protect states against
invasion, as outlined in Article IV, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution. The President declares the
situation at the southern border as an ongoing invasion, necessitating immediate federal action to
fulfill this obligation.

The proclamation outlines the President's authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)
to suspend the entry of aliens deemed detrimental to the interests of the United States. It
emphasizes the need to control the border to prevent threats to public health, safety, and national
security. The proclamation directs federal agencies to take necessary actions to repel and remove
aliens involved in the invasion and to suspend their entry into the United States until the
situation is resolved. This includes imposing restrictions on aliens who fail to provide sufficient
medical and criminal background information.

Overall, the proclamation underscores the President's commitment to using his constitutional and
statutory powers to address the challenges posed by illegal immigration at the southern border. It
calls for coordinated efforts by federal agencies to ensure the protection of states and the
American people from the risks associated with uncontrolled border crossings. The proclamation also
highlights the significant financial and operational burdens placed on states due to the ongoing
influx of illegal aliens.

## Keeping Americans Safe in Aviation (Presidential Actions, January 21, 2025)

The text discusses a presidential directive aimed at ensuring safety in aviation by addressing
hiring practices within the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA is responsible for
overseeing the safety of numerous flights and millions of passengers daily. However, the text
criticizes the previous administration for prioritizing diversity and inclusion over merit-based
hiring, which allegedly compromised safety by recruiting individuals with disabilities that could
affect their job performance.

The directive orders the FAA to revert to hiring based on merit, competence, and qualifications,
rather than diversity criteria such as race, sex, or disability. It emphasizes that all diversity,
equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives that could endanger safety should be rescinded. The goal is
to ensure that FAA employees are selected and promoted based on their ability to perform their
duties to the highest standards, thereby maintaining public confidence in air travel safety.

Furthermore, the directive mandates a review of the performance of individuals in critical safety
positions. It calls for replacing any underperforming individuals with highly capable ones to
enhance air safety and efficiency. This approach aims to restore a focus on excellence and
efficiency in the FAA's operations, ensuring that all Americans can fly with confidence.

## Ending Illegal Discrimination And Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity (Presidential Actions, January 21, 2025)

On January 21, 2025, President Trump issued an Executive Order aimed at ending illegal
discrimination and restoring merit-based opportunities in the United States. The order emphasizes
the enforcement of longstanding civil-rights laws that protect individuals from discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. It criticizes the use of diversity, equity, and
inclusion (DEI) policies in various sectors, including the federal government, corporations, and
educational institutions, arguing that these policies can violate civil-rights laws and undermine
traditional American values of hard work and individual achievement.

The Executive Order mandates all federal agencies to terminate discriminatory and illegal
preferences and to enforce civil-rights laws. It revokes several previous executive orders related
to diversity and inclusion and streamlines the federal contracting process to ensure compliance with
civil-rights laws. The order also directs federal agencies to encourage the private sector to end
illegal DEI discrimination and preferences. By May 21, 2025, the Attorney General and the Secretary
of Education are required to issue guidance to educational institutions on complying with a Supreme
Court decision that effectively banned affirmative action in higher education.

The order has significant implications for federal contractors, private employers, and educational
institutions. Federal contractors must end affirmative action programs by April 21, 2025, and
certify compliance with anti-discrimination laws. Private employers are encouraged to evaluate their
DEI initiatives for compliance with existing laws. Educational institutions receiving federal funds
must adhere to new guidance on affirmative action. The order may face legal challenges, and
organizations are advised to consult legal counsel to ensure compliance and prepare for potential
scrutiny.

## Nominations Transmitted to the Senate (Presidential Actions, January 22, 2025)

The text is an announcement from January 22, 2025, detailing a list of nominations sent by the
President to the Senate for confirmation. These nominations are for various high-level government
positions that have become vacant due to resignations. The nominees include Michael Boren for Under
Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, Steven Bradbury for Deputy Secretary
of Transportation, and several others for different roles across various departments.

Each nominee is set to replace a predecessor who has resigned from their position. For example,
Michael Boren is nominated to replace Homer L. Wilkes, and Steven Bradbury is nominated to replace
Polly Ellen Trottenberg. This process is part of the presidential administration's efforts to fill
key positions within the government to ensure that departments continue to function effectively.

The nominations are part of the constitutional process where the Senate provides advice and consent
on presidential appointments. This process involves the Senate reviewing and confirming the
President's nominees to ensure they are qualified for their respective roles. The announcement is a
formal step in this process, indicating the President's choices for these important positions.

## Executive Grant of Clemency for Andrew Zabavsky (Presidential Actions, January 22, 2025)

On January 22, 2025, former President Donald J. Trump granted a full and unconditional pardon to
Andrew Zabavsky. This pardon was issued for Zabavsky's convictions in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia. He was previously sentenced to 48 months in prison for each
count of violating sections 371 and 1512 of Title 18 of the United States Code, with the sentences
to run concurrently. Additionally, he was sentenced to three years of supervised release and a $200
special assessment.

The pardon was executed under the President's constitutional powers, specifically Article II,
Section 2, Clause 1, which allows the President to grant clemency. The Pardon Attorney was
designated to act on behalf of the President to formalize this clemency grant. This action
effectively forgives Zabavsky's crimes and removes any current or future punishments related to
these convictions.

This clemency action is a demonstration of the presidential power to pardon, which is a significant
constitutional authority. It allows the President to forgive crimes and eliminate penalties,
reflecting the belief in rehabilitation and second chances. Clemency can be used to address
perceived injustices or inequities in sentencing, and it is often exercised at the end of a
presidential term.

## Designation Of Ansar Allah as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (Presidential Actions, January 22, 2025)

On January 22, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order to designate Ansar Allah, also
known as the Houthis, as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO). This decision was made due to the
group's ongoing attacks on U.S. Navy warships, civilian infrastructure, and commercial vessels,
which have endangered American personnel and disrupted global trade. The Houthis, supported by
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, have been involved in numerous violent activities since
2014, including attacks on Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Israel.

The executive order outlines the U.S. policy to work with regional partners to dismantle Ansar
Allah's operations and resources. It mandates the Secretary of State to submit a report within 30
days regarding the designation, followed by appropriate actions within 15 days. Additionally, the
order requires a review of USAID's partners in Yemen to identify any entities that have financially
supported the Houthis or opposed international efforts against them. Projects or contracts linked to
such entities will be terminated.

This designation aims to curb the Houthis' capabilities and ensure the safety of U.S. personnel and
allies in the Middle East. It also seeks to stabilize global maritime trade by addressing the
threats posed by the Houthis in the Red Sea.

## Executive Grant of Clemency for Terence Sutton (Presidential Actions, January 22, 2025)

On January 22, 2025, President Donald J. Trump issued a full and unconditional pardon to Terence
Sutton, a police officer from Washington, D.C. Sutton was previously convicted in the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia for several charges, including second-degree murder and
obstruction of justice, related to a police chase that resulted in the death of Karon Hylton-Brown
in 2020. Sutton was sentenced to over five years in prison for these offenses. The pardon
effectively nullifies Sutton's convictions and any associated penalties, allowing him to avoid
serving his prison sentence.

The decision to pardon Sutton has sparked significant controversy and debate. Critics argue that the
pardon undermines the judicial process and could be seen as an abuse of presidential power. The case
was particularly sensitive due to its timing, occurring shortly after the murder of George Floyd,
which had already heightened tensions around police conduct and accountability. The pardon has been
criticized by some as potentially eroding public trust in law enforcement and the justice system, as
it may be perceived as excusing or minimizing serious misconduct by police officers.

Supporters of the pardon, including the D.C. Police Union, argue that the convictions were unjust
and that the officers were unfairly targeted. They claim that the charges against Sutton and his
colleague, Lt. Andrew Zabavsky, who was also pardoned, were excessive and that the officers were
simply performing their duties. The union and other advocates believe that the pardons correct a
miscarriage of justice and support law enforcement officers who face challenging situations in the
line of duty.

## Federal Recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina (Presidential Actions, January 23, 2025)

The Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, known as the People of the Dark Water, has a rich history and is
descended from several tribal nations, including the Hatteras, Tuscarora, and Cheraw. Despite being
recognized by the state of North Carolina as an Indian tribe in 1885, the Lumbee have not received
full federal recognition, which would grant them access to federal benefits. In 1956, the Lumbee Act
acknowledged them as Indians but denied them these benefits. The tribe, now consisting of over
55,000 members, is the largest east of the Mississippi River and the ninth-largest in the United
States.

In 2024, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Lumbee Fairness Act, which aimed to grant the
tribe full federal recognition, but the Senate did not consider it before the end of the 118th
Congress. The U.S. government now supports the full federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe,
acknowledging their historical and modern significance. A directive has been issued for the
Secretary of the Interior to create a plan within 90 days to assist the Lumbee Tribe in obtaining
full federal recognition, exploring legal pathways such as congressional acts, judicial actions, or
administrative procedures.

The memorandum emphasizes the importance of recognizing the Lumbee Tribe and ensuring they receive
the benefits associated with federal recognition. This includes a thorough review of potential legal
avenues to achieve this goal, highlighting the need for collaboration between the Lumbee Tribe and
the U.S. government. The Secretary of the Interior is tasked with publishing this memorandum in the
Federal Register, marking a significant step toward addressing the longstanding issue of federal
recognition for the Lumbee Tribe.

## Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology (Presidential Actions, January 23, 2025)

On January 23, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order aimed at strengthening the United
States' leadership in digital financial technology. This order emphasizes the importance of digital
assets, such as cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, in fostering innovation and economic
growth. The administration's policy supports the responsible development and use of these
technologies across all economic sectors. Key goals include ensuring fair access to blockchain
networks, promoting dollar-backed stablecoins, and providing clear regulatory frameworks. The order
also prohibits the establishment and use of Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs) within the U.S.,
citing concerns over financial stability and privacy.

The executive order revokes previous policies from the Biden administration, specifically Executive
Order 14067 and the Treasury's framework on digital assets. It establishes a President's Working
Group on Digital Asset Markets to review existing regulations and propose a federal regulatory
framework for digital assets, including stablecoins. This group, chaired by a Special Advisor for AI
and Crypto, will include various high-level officials and is tasked with submitting a report within
180 days. The report will focus on market structure, consumer protection, and risk management, and
will evaluate the potential for a national digital asset stockpile.

Overall, the order seeks to provide regulatory clarity and support innovation in the digital asset
space while safeguarding against potential risks associated with CBDCs. It aims to position the U.S.
as a leader in digital financial technology by fostering an environment conducive to growth and
innovation, with a focus on maintaining the sovereignty of the U.S. dollar and protecting individual
privacy.

## Declassification of Records Concerning the Assassinations of President John F. Kennedy (Presidential Actions, January 23, 2025)

On January 23, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order to declassify all records
related to the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and Reverend
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. This decision comes more than 50 years after these events, with the aim
of providing transparency and truth to the families of the victims and the American public. The
order mandates the release of all records concerning JFK's assassination within 15 days and those
related to RFK and MLK Jr. within 45 days.

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 required the full
disclosure of JFK-related records by 2017, unless withholding them was necessary to prevent
identifiable harm to national interests. Despite previous administrations, including President
Biden's, delaying the release of some documents, President Trump has determined that further
withholding is not in the public interest. Although there is no congressional mandate for the
release of RFK and MLK Jr. records, Trump has decided that their disclosure is also in the public
interest.

The executive order specifies that the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General,
along with other officials, must coordinate the release plans. This move is part of Trump's broader
promise to end delays and provide the American people with the truth about these historical events.

## President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (Presidential Actions, January 23, 2025)

The executive order establishes the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology
(PCAST) to provide guidance on science and technology matters. This council aims to harness American
innovation to maintain global technological dominance, especially in fields like artificial
intelligence and biotechnology. The order highlights the importance of scientific truth and warns
against ideological influences that could hinder innovation and public trust. PCAST will consist of
up to 24 members from various sectors, co-chaired by the Assistant to the President for Science and
Technology and the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto.

PCAST's role is to advise the President on science, technology, education, and innovation policies.
It will gather information from diverse stakeholders, including academia, industry, and government,
to inform public policy. The council will also serve as advisory committees for specific acts
related to high-performance computing and nanotechnology. Members will serve without compensation
but may receive travel expenses. The Department of Energy will support PCAST administratively and
financially.

The order revokes a previous executive order from 2021 and sets a two-year term for PCAST, with the
possibility of extension. This initiative underscores the administration's commitment to leveraging
science and technology for national security and economic growth.

## Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (Presidential Actions, January 23, 2025)

The Executive Order titled "Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence,"
issued on January 23, 2025, aims to strengthen the United States' position as a global leader in
artificial intelligence (AI). The order emphasizes the importance of developing AI systems that are
free from ideological bias and engineered social agendas. It seeks to enhance America's global AI
dominance to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security. To achieve
this, the order revokes certain existing AI policies that are seen as barriers to innovation and
mandates the creation of an AI Action Plan within 180 days.

The order tasks key White House officials, including the Assistant to the President for Science and
Technology and the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto, with reviewing and potentially revising or
rescinding actions taken under the previous administration's AI policies. This includes the
revocation of Executive Order 14110, which focused on the safe and trustworthy development of AI.
The officials are required to identify any actions that conflict with the new policy and take steps
to align them with the current administration's objectives. Additionally, the Office of Management
and Budget is instructed to revise its guidance on AI to ensure consistency with the new policy.

Overall, the Executive Order reflects a shift in AI policy towards fostering innovation and
maintaining U.S. leadership in AI technology. It underscores the administration's commitment to
removing regulatory barriers and promoting a free-market approach to AI development. The order also
highlights the potential for increased state-level regulation in the absence of comprehensive
federal legislation, as states may seek to address AI-related issues independently.

## The First 100 Hours: Historic Action to Kick off America’s Golden Age (Presidential Actions, January 24, 2025)

President Donald Trump began his second term with a series of rapid and significant actions,
focusing on fulfilling his campaign promises. Within the first 100 hours, he signed numerous
executive orders aimed at securing the U.S. border, deporting criminal illegal immigrants, and
boosting the economy through significant investments. Trump also emphasized reducing government
costs, increasing transparency, and reinstating merit-based hiring in the federal government. His
administration secured over $1 trillion in new investments, including a $500 billion AI
infrastructure project and a $600 billion investment from Saudi Arabia.

In terms of immigration, Trump's administration took aggressive steps to secure the border and
deport illegal immigrants with criminal records. The Border Patrol reported a decrease in illegal
crossings, and ICE arrested hundreds of illegal immigrants with criminal histories. Trump also shut
down the CBP One app, which had allowed over a million illegal immigrants to enter the U.S., and
began deportation flights with military assistance. Additionally, he reinstated the use of the term
"illegal alien" and took action against sanctuary city policies.

Trump's executive orders also targeted energy policies, reversing many of Joe Biden's regulations
and withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement. He declared a National Energy Emergency to
maximize America's energy potential and reduce costs. Furthermore, Trump ended affirmative action
mandates in federal hiring, emphasized merit-based hiring, and directed federal employees to return
to office work. His actions were praised by various industry leaders for supporting American jobs,
energy independence, and reducing government interference.

## Council to Assess the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Presidential Actions, January 24, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 24, 2025, by President Trump establishes a council to review
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This decision comes after recent disasters, such as
Hurricane Helene, highlighted the need for significant improvements in FEMA's effectiveness and
priorities. Concerns have been raised about FEMA's political bias and its focus on missions beyond
its scope, which may have affected its ability to provide timely and impartial disaster response.
The council will consist of up to 20 members, including the Secretaries of Homeland Security and
Defense, and will include experts from various sectors to provide diverse perspectives on disaster
management.

The council's primary role is to advise the President on FEMA's current capabilities and suggest
changes to enhance its performance. It will regularly meet to gather information from a wide range
of stakeholders, including those affected by disasters, and will produce a comprehensive report.
This report will assess FEMA's disaster response over the past four years, compare it with state and
local responses, and evaluate FEMA's role within the federal system. The council will also explore
historical disaster relief methods and consider whether FEMA should act as a support agency rather
than taking over state responsibilities.

The council is expected to hold its first public meeting within 90 days of the order and submit its
findings to the President within 180 days of this meeting. The Department of Homeland Security will
provide necessary support, and council members will serve without compensation, although they may
receive travel expenses. The council will be dissolved one year from the order's date unless
extended by the President. This initiative aims to ensure FEMA can deliver effective and unbiased
disaster relief, aligning with national interests and resilience goals.

## Emergency Measures to Provide Water Resources in California and Improve Disaster Response in Certain Areas (Presidential Actions, January 24, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 24, 2025, by the President of the United States aims to
address the severe water shortages and improve disaster response in California, particularly in
Southern California, which has been devastated by wildfires. The order outlines several measures to
ensure adequate water resources are available to fight and prevent wildfires. It directs various
federal departments, including Defense, Homeland Security, and Interior, to take immediate actions
to secure water resources and override any state or local policies that hinder these efforts. The
order also emphasizes the need to expedite water delivery projects and review regulations that may
impede these efforts.

Additionally, the order addresses the need for better disaster response and recovery efforts. It
includes provisions for housing displaced families, expediting debris removal, and ensuring the
effective use of federal grants for fire preparedness. The order also highlights the importance of
reviewing and potentially revising California's land management and water policies to prevent future
disasters. It calls for a coordinated federal response to assist affected communities in rebuilding
and regaining their livelihoods.

Furthermore, the executive order includes specific actions to assist families in North Carolina
affected by Hurricane Helene, such as clearing roads and providing housing relief. The order
concludes with general provisions ensuring that the actions taken are consistent with existing laws
and do not create new legal rights or benefits. Overall, the order seeks to provide immediate relief
and long-term solutions to improve water resource management and disaster response in affected
areas.

## Enforcing the Hyde Amendment (Presidential Actions, January 24, 2025)

On January 24, 2025, President Donald Trump signed an executive order to enforce the Hyde Amendment,
which has been a longstanding policy preventing federal funding for elective abortions. This order
aims to reverse actions taken by the previous administration, which had allowed federal taxpayer
dollars to fund elective abortions through various programs. The executive order revokes two
specific orders from the Biden administration that expanded access to reproductive healthcare,
including abortion services, following the overturn of Roe v. Wade.

The order directs the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to provide guidance to federal
departments and agencies to ensure the implementation of this policy. It emphasizes that the order
should not interfere with the legal authority of any executive department or agency or the budgetary
functions of the Office of Management and Budget.

Overall, this executive order reflects a shift in federal policy back to the principles of the Hyde
Amendment, emphasizing that federal taxpayer dollars should not be used to fund or promote elective
abortions. This move aligns with the administration's broader anti-abortion stance and revokes
previous efforts to expand reproductive rights and healthcare access.

## Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the United States for International Development (Presidential Actions, January 24, 2025)

The memorandum issued on January 24, 2025, by the President revokes a previous policy from January
28, 2021, and reinstates the Mexico City Policy from January 23, 2017. This policy affects how U.S.
federal funds are used by foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in relation to abortion
services. Specifically, it blocks U.S. funding for NGOs that provide abortion counseling, referrals,
or services, or advocate for the liberalization of abortion laws. The policy is often referred to as
the "global gag rule" because it restricts what organizations can say or do regarding abortion, even
with their own non-U.S. funds.

The memorandum directs the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, to implement a plan extending the policy's requirements to all global health
assistance provided by U.S. departments or agencies. It also instructs the Secretary of State to
ensure that U.S. taxpayer dollars do not fund organizations involved in coercive abortion or
involuntary sterilization.

The Mexico City Policy has been a point of contention, with Republican administrations typically
reinstating it and Democratic administrations rescinding it. Critics argue that the policy reduces
access to family planning services, leading to increased unintended pregnancies and abortions, while
supporters claim it prevents U.S. funds from supporting abortion-related activities. The policy's
reinstatement in 2025 marks another shift in the ongoing debate over U.S. foreign aid and
reproductive health services.

## The National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of Auschwitz, 2025 (Presidential Actions, January 27, 2025)

Today is the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, a Nazi concentration camp in
Poland where over a million Jews and other victims were killed during the Holocaust. This day is a
time for America and the world to remember those who suffered and died, and to honor the survivors
and those who fought for freedom. The Holocaust left a deep impact on families, with many losing
loved ones to the horrors of anti-Semitism.

Despite the lessons learned from the Holocaust, anti-Semitism still exists in some parts of the
world. On this day, there is a renewed commitment to fight against such hatred and to ensure it has
no place in society. The Jewish people have shown resilience by establishing the modern State of
Israel, and they continue to symbolize human strength and victory.

The President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, has proclaimed January 27, 2025, as a National
Day of Remembrance. He encourages all Americans to participate in activities that honor the victims
of the Holocaust and recognize the sacrifices made by those who helped liberate Auschwitz. This
proclamation serves as a reminder of the importance of dignity and respect for all people.

## The Iron Dome for America (Presidential Actions, January 27, 2025)

The executive order titled "The Iron Dome for America," issued on January 27, 2025, by the President
of the United States, aims to address the growing threat of advanced missile attacks on the country.
The order highlights the need for a next-generation missile defense shield to protect against
ballistic, hypersonic, and cruise missiles, among other aerial threats. This initiative is
reminiscent of President Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative, which was never fully
realized. The new policy emphasizes the importance of maintaining a secure second-strike capability
and ensuring the defense of the nation and its citizens through advanced missile defense systems.

The order outlines a detailed implementation plan, requiring the Secretary of Defense to submit a
comprehensive architecture and requirements for the missile defense shield within 60 days. This plan
includes deploying space-based interceptors, enhancing tracking capabilities, and developing
non-kinetic methods to counter missile threats. Additionally, the order calls for increased
cooperation with allies to improve missile defense capabilities and protect forward-deployed troops.
The initiative also stresses the importance of a secure supply chain and the development of
technologies to intercept missiles before they are launched.

Overall, the executive order seeks to strengthen the United States' missile defense posture in
response to evolving threats from peer and near-peer adversaries. It aims to enhance national
security by deploying a robust and technologically advanced missile defense system, while also
fostering international collaboration to address shared security challenges. The order acknowledges
the complexity and cost of such a defense system but underscores its necessity in maintaining peace
and stability in the face of modern strategic threats.

## Prioritizing Military Excellence and Readiness (Presidential Actions, January 27, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 27, 2025, by the President of the United States focuses on
maintaining military excellence and readiness. It emphasizes that the military's primary mission is
to protect the nation and its people, requiring a strong focus on developing a warrior ethos. The
order argues that accommodating political agendas or ideologies, such as radical gender ideology,
can harm unit cohesion and military effectiveness. It states that individuals expressing a gender
identity different from their biological sex do not meet the rigorous standards necessary for
military service, as it conflicts with the values of honesty, humility, and selflessness expected
from service members.

The order outlines a policy that sets high standards for troop readiness, cohesion, and integrity,
which it claims are inconsistent with the medical and mental health needs of individuals with gender
dysphoria. It also opposes the use of pronouns that do not align with an individual's biological
sex. The Secretary of Defense is tasked with updating military medical standards and ending the use
of identification-based pronouns. Additionally, the order revokes a previous executive order that
allowed transgender individuals to serve openly in the military, requiring all related policies to
be rescinded.

The implementation of this order involves updating military policies within 60 days and ensuring
compliance across all military departments. It also includes specific provisions regarding the use
of facilities designated for males and females. Overall, the order seeks to prioritize military
readiness and cohesion by enforcing strict standards related to gender identity and medical fitness.

## Restoring America’s Fighting Force (Presidential Actions, January 27, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 27, 2025, by the President of the United States focuses on
maintaining military excellence and readiness. It emphasizes that the military's primary mission is
to protect the nation and its people, requiring a strong focus on developing a warrior ethos. The
order argues that accommodating political agendas or ideologies, such as radical gender ideology,
can harm unit cohesion and military effectiveness. It states that individuals expressing a gender
identity different from their biological sex do not meet the rigorous standards necessary for
military service, as it conflicts with the values of honesty, humility, and selflessness expected
from service members.

The order outlines a policy that sets high standards for troop readiness, cohesion, and integrity,
which it claims are inconsistent with the medical and mental health needs of individuals with gender
dysphoria. It also opposes the use of pronouns that do not align with an individual's biological
sex. The Secretary of Defense is tasked with updating military medical standards and ending the use
of identification-based pronouns. Additionally, the order revokes a previous executive order that
allowed transgender individuals to serve openly in the military, requiring all related policies to
be rescinded.

The implementation of this order involves updating military policies within 60 days and ensuring
compliance across all military departments. It also includes specific provisions regarding the use
of facilities designated for males and females. Overall, the order seeks to prioritize military
readiness and cohesion by enforcing strict standards related to gender identity and medical fitness.

## Reinstating Service Members Discharged Under the Military’s COVID-19 Vaccination Mandate (Presidential Actions, January 27, 2025)

The executive order signed on January 27, 2025, by President Donald Trump aims to reinstate military
service members who were discharged for refusing the COVID-19 vaccine. The order acknowledges that
the vaccine mandate, initially imposed by the Secretary of Defense in August 2021 and later
rescinded in January 2023, was an unfair burden on service members. It highlights that many were
unjustly discharged without receiving exemptions they were entitled to. The order mandates the
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security to facilitate the reinstatement of these
service members, allowing them to return to their previous rank and receive full back pay and
benefits.

The order outlines specific actions to be taken, such as making reinstatement available to those
discharged solely for vaccine refusal and allowing those who voluntarily left to avoid the vaccine
to return without affecting their service status. It also emphasizes that disciplinary actions for
other conduct violations remain unaffected. The order requires a progress report within 60 days and
includes provisions for severability and general implementation guidelines.

Overall, the executive order seeks to address what is perceived as an injustice against service
members who were discharged due to the vaccine mandate. It provides a pathway for their return to
service with compensation for lost pay and benefits, while maintaining the integrity of military
discipline and administrative processes.

## Protecting Children from Chemical and Surgical Mutilation (Presidential Actions, January 28, 2025)

On January 28, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order aimed at stopping what is described
as "chemical and surgical mutilation" of children, referring to gender-affirming medical procedures
for minors. The order states that the U.S. government will not support or fund any medical
interventions that attempt to change a child's sex, such as puberty blockers, hormone treatments, or
surgeries. It criticizes the guidance from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health
(WPATH) and calls for a review of best practices for treating children with gender dysphoria.

The executive order directs various federal agencies to take actions to restrict access to
gender-affirming care. This includes rescinding policies based on WPATH guidance, defunding
institutions that provide such care, and excluding these procedures from federal health insurance
programs like TRICARE and the Federal Employee Health Benefits program. The Department of Justice is
also instructed to prioritize enforcement against practices it deems harmful and to support
legislation allowing legal action against medical professionals involved in these procedures.

The order has sparked significant controversy and legal challenges. Several states and
organizations, including the ACLU and Lambda Legal, have filed lawsuits arguing that the order is
unconstitutional and discriminatory. They claim it violates the rights of transgender individuals
and interferes with medical practices. Some state attorneys general have opposed the order,
emphasizing their commitment to protecting access to gender-affirming care, while others have
instructed compliance to avoid legal risks.

## Expanding Educational Freedom and Opportunity for Families (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 29, 2025, aims to expand educational freedom and opportunities
for families in the United States. It acknowledges that many children are not thriving in their
assigned public schools, as evidenced by low proficiency levels in reading and math among 8th
graders. The order highlights the financial strain on families due to the high cost of housing in
districts with preferred schools. To address these issues, the order supports educational choice,
allowing families to select the best educational settings for their children, which can lead to
improved student achievement and better performance of nearby public schools.

The order outlines several actions to promote educational choice. It directs the Secretary of
Education to provide guidance on using federal funds to support K-12 educational choice initiatives.
It also emphasizes the inclusion of education freedom as a priority in discretionary grant programs.
Additionally, the order calls for plans to expand educational opportunities for low-income families,
military families, and children eligible for Bureau of Indian Education schools. These plans involve
using federal funds to support educational alternatives, including private and faith-based options.

Overall, the executive order seeks to empower parents in choosing the best educational paths for
their children, thereby fostering competition and improvement in the education system. It aims to
provide more options for families, particularly those in low-income and military communities, by
leveraging federal funds to support diverse educational choices.

## Ending Radical Indoctrination in K-12 Schooling (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

The executive order issued on January 29, 2025, by President Trump aims to address what he perceives
as "radical indoctrination" in K-12 schools. The order claims that schools have been teaching
anti-American ideologies and blocking parental oversight, which undermines critical thinking and
family unity. It emphasizes the need to protect parental rights and eliminate discriminatory
programs, particularly those related to gender identity and diversity, equity, and inclusion
initiatives. The order defines "discriminatory equity ideology" as treating individuals based on
group identity rather than individual merit and capability, and it seeks to promote a more positive
vision of American history through "patriotic education."

The order directs federal agencies, including the Departments of Education, Defense, and Health and
Human Services, to develop a strategy to eliminate federal funding for schools that engage in what
the administration considers illegal and discriminatory indoctrination. This includes activities
related to gender ideology and discriminatory equity ideology. The order also reestablishes the
President’s Advisory 1776 Commission to promote patriotic education and support initiatives related
to American history and civics education. The commission will work to develop programs and awards
that recognize student knowledge of America's founding principles and history.

While the order does not immediately cut funding to schools, it sets in motion a process for
identifying and potentially rescinding federal funds from schools that violate the order's
principles. The order has sparked debate and tension between federal directives and state laws,
particularly concerning issues of gender identity and diversity. Legal challenges are anticipated as
the order attempts to impose conditions on federal funding, and schools are encouraged to review
their policies and consult legal counsel to navigate the evolving legal landscape.

## Celebrating America’s 250th Birthday (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

The executive order issued by the President on January 29, 2025, outlines plans for a grand
celebration of America's 250th Independence Day on July 4, 2026. To organize this event, the order
establishes the White House Task Force on Celebrating America’s 250th Birthday, known as Task
Force 250. This task force will be chaired by the President, with the Vice President serving as Vice
Chair. It includes various high-ranking officials from different government departments and
agencies. The task force is responsible for planning and coordinating the celebrations and will work
closely with other agencies to ensure a successful event. All agencies involved are required to
submit their plans and activities related to the celebration by March 1, 2025.

Additionally, the executive order reinstates previous orders related to the National Garden of
American Heroes, aiming to expand the number of historically significant Americans honored in the
garden to 250. It also reinstates an order to protect American monuments from vandalism, citing
recent incidents of vandalism and assaults on federal officers in Washington, D.C. The task force
will be housed under the Department of Defense, which will provide funding and administrative
support. The order emphasizes the importance of honoring American history and ensuring the
protection of national monuments during this significant anniversary.

## Expanding Migrant Operations Center at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay to Full Capacity (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

The memorandum issued on January 29, 2025, directs the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of
Homeland Security to expand the Migrant Operations Center at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay to its
full capacity. This expansion aims to provide more detention space for high-priority criminal aliens
who are unlawfully present in the United States. The memorandum also addresses immigration
enforcement needs identified by the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security.

The purpose of this directive is to stop what is described as a border invasion, dismantle criminal
cartels, and restore national sovereignty. However, the memorandum explicitly states that it does
not create any legal rights or benefits that can be enforced against the United States or its
entities by any party.

This action has sparked controversy, with organizations like the International Refugee Assistance
Project (IRAP) criticizing the plan. They argue that expanding the detention center could lead to
inhumane conditions and mass detention without proper oversight. Critics emphasize the need for
humane treatment and legal rights for detainees, urging the closure of the facility instead of its
expansion.

## President Donald J. Trump Signed S.5 into Law (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

President Donald Trump signed the Laken Riley Act into law on January 29, 2025. This law requires
the detention of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. who are accused of crimes such as theft, even
if they have not been convicted. The Act is named after Laken Riley, a Georgia nursing student who
was killed by an undocumented immigrant. The law aims to prevent similar incidents by mandating the
detention of immigrants accused of certain crimes and allowing states to sue the federal government
if it fails to enforce these provisions.

The Laken Riley Act has sparked controversy and debate. Supporters argue that it strengthens border
security and holds immigrants accountable for crimes. However, critics, including many Democrats,
express concerns about the erosion of due process rights and the potential for unjust detentions.
They also highlight the lack of funding for implementing the law, estimating it could cost $83
billion over three years. Despite these concerns, the bill received bipartisan support, with some
Democrats backing it due to constituent demands for stricter immigration enforcement.

The Act also grants state attorneys general the power to sue the federal government for not
enforcing immigration laws effectively. Additionally, it prohibits issuing visas to citizens of
countries that refuse to accept deported nationals. While the Act aims to enhance immigration
enforcement, it has raised significant concerns about civil rights and the financial burden on
federal authorities.

## Additional Measures to Combat Anti-Semitism (Presidential Actions, January 29, 2025)

President Trump issued an Executive Order on January 29, 2025, to combat anti-Semitism, especially
in educational institutions. This order builds on a previous order from 2019, which aimed to protect
Jewish students from discrimination. The new order was prompted by a rise in anti-Semitic incidents
following terrorist attacks in Israel in October 2023. It mandates that federal agencies identify
and report on legal tools and actions to address anti-Semitism, focusing on civil rights violations
in schools and universities.

The order requires each federal agency to submit a report within 60 days, detailing actions and
authorities that can be used to fight anti-Semitism. The Attorney General and Secretary of Education
must include analyses of court cases and Title VI complaints related to anti-Semitism in their
reports. The order also encourages the use of civil rights enforcement laws to address harassment
and violence. Additionally, it calls for recommendations on monitoring and reporting activities by
international students and staff that may violate U.S. laws.

Overall, the Executive Order emphasizes a strong federal response to anti-Semitism, using legal
measures to hold perpetrators accountable and protect Jewish students. It aims to ensure that
educational institutions are aware of and comply with laws related to anti-Semitism, and it seeks to
prevent discrimination and violence against Jewish individuals in the United States.

## Immediate Assessment of Aviation Safety (Presidential Actions, January 30, 2025)

On January 29, 2025, a tragic collision occurred between a commercial aircraft and a military
helicopter near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, resulting in the loss of lives. This
incident has prompted President Trump to issue a memorandum directing an immediate assessment of
aviation safety. The President criticized past administrations, particularly the Obama and Biden
administrations, for implementing hiring practices at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that
he claims prioritized diversity over merit and competence. He argues that these practices have
compromised safety standards and calls for a return to merit-based recruitment and promotion within
the FAA.

In response to the accident, President Trump has ordered the Secretary of Transportation and the FAA
Administrator to review all hiring decisions and safety protocol changes made in the past four
years. The goal is to ensure aviation safety by taking corrective actions, including replacing
individuals who do not meet qualification standards. This review aims to address any decline in
hiring and safety standards that may have occurred during the Biden administration. The President
emphasizes the importance of prioritizing safety and competence to restore public confidence in
aviation safety.

The memorandum aligns with a previous Presidential Memorandum titled "Keeping Americans Safe in
Aviation," issued on January 21, 2025. It underscores the administration's commitment to reversing
concerning trends in safety and personnel practices over the past four years. The directive aims to
instill a strong commitment to aviation safety, ensuring that all Americans can fly with peace of
mind.

## Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation (Presidential Actions, January 31, 2025)

President Trump's executive order, titled "Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation," aims to
reduce the number of federal regulations to promote economic growth and innovation. The order
requires that for every new regulation introduced, at least ten existing regulations must be
repealed. This "10 for 1" rule is more aggressive than the previous "2 for 1" rule from Trump's
first administration. The goal is to ensure that the total cost of new regulations is significantly
less than zero, meaning that the overall regulatory burden should decrease.

The executive order also mandates that starting in fiscal year 2026, each federal agency must report
the total costs or savings associated with new and repealed regulations. These reports will be part
of the Unified Regulatory Agenda, which requires approval from the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) before any regulation can be added or removed. The OMB will set a regulatory budget for each
agency, dictating the permissible regulatory costs for each fiscal year.

Certain regulations are exempt from this order, including those related to national security,
foreign affairs, and agency management. The order also revokes the 2023 update to OMB Circular A-4,
reinstating the 2003 version, which changes how regulatory costs and benefits are analyzed. This
move is intended to focus on the overall economic costs and benefits of regulations, rather than
broader considerations like global impacts or distributional effects.

## Limiting Lame-Duck Collective Bargaining Agreements That Improperly Attempt to Constrain the New President (Presidential Actions, January 31, 2025)

The memorandum issued on January 31, 2025, by the President aims to limit the approval of collective
bargaining agreements (CBAs) made in the last 30 days before a new President takes office. These
agreements, often finalized by the outgoing administration, can impose policies that the new
administration may find inefficient or contrary to its goals. For instance, a CBA negotiated by the
Department of Education just before the new President took office restricted the return of remote
employees to their offices. Such agreements are seen as attempts to bind the new President to the
predecessor's policies, which contradicts the democratic principle that each administration should
have the freedom to implement its policies.

The memorandum sets clear standards for CBAs during this transition period. It prohibits any new
contractual obligations, substantive changes to existing agreements, or extensions of current
agreements within the 30 days before a new administration begins. If any such agreements are made,
they must be disapproved by the agency heads unless they primarily cover law enforcement officers.
This policy ensures that the new President retains the authority to manage the executive branch
without being constrained by last-minute agreements from the previous administration.

Additionally, the memorandum clarifies that it does not affect the legal authority of executive
departments or the functions of the Office of Management and Budget.

## Imposing Duties to Address the Situation at Our Southern Border (Presidential Actions, February 1, 2025)

On February 1, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order to impose additional tariffs
on products from Mexico. This decision was made in response to a declared national emergency at the
U.S.-Mexico border, which was attributed to the influx of illegal immigrants and drugs, particularly
opioids, into the United States. The executive order cites the failure of Mexico to effectively
combat drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) and other criminal activities as a significant threat
to U.S. national security, foreign policy, and economy.

The order mandates a 25% tariff on all Mexican products entering the United States, effective
February 4, 2025. However, goods already in transit before this date are exempt from the additional
duty. The tariffs are intended to pressure Mexico into taking more decisive action against drug
trafficking and illegal migration. The order also allows for the possibility of increasing tariffs
if Mexico retaliates with its own trade measures against the U.S. The Secretary of Homeland
Security, along with other key officials, is tasked with monitoring the situation and advising the
President on Mexico's compliance and cooperation.

The executive order emphasizes the urgency of addressing the crisis at the southern border and the
need for immediate action. It underscores the President's commitment to protecting U.S. sovereignty
and security by enforcing stricter border controls and trade measures. The order also outlines the
legal framework and authority under which these actions are being taken, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) and the National Emergencies Act (NEA).

## Imposing Duties to Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China (Presidential Actions, February 1, 2025)

On February 1, 2025, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order to impose additional
tariffs on products from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in response to the ongoing synthetic
opioid crisis in the United States. The order highlights the severe impact of synthetic opioids,
such as fentanyl, which are largely sourced from China and have led to significant loss of life and
societal harm in the U.S. The Chinese government and its enterprises are accused of facilitating the
export of these harmful substances and supporting criminal organizations involved in their
distribution.

The executive order declares a national emergency due to the influx of synthetic opioids and the
failure of the PRC to take adequate measures to curb the flow of these drugs. As a result, a 10% ad
valorem tariff is imposed on all Chinese products entering the U.S., effective February 4, 2025.
This action aims to pressure China into cooperating more effectively to address the opioid crisis.
The order also outlines the conditions under which these tariffs might be adjusted or removed,
depending on China's response and cooperation in mitigating the crisis.

The order empowers the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with other key officials, to
implement and enforce these tariffs. It also mandates regular consultations and reports to assess
the situation and determine if further actions are necessary. The executive order underscores the
U.S. government's commitment to protecting its citizens from the dangers posed by synthetic opioids
and holding the PRC accountable for its role in the crisis.

## Imposing Duties to Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border (Presidential Actions, February 1, 2025)

On February 1, 2025, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order to address the flow of
illicit drugs, particularly fentanyl, across the northern border of the United States. The order
highlights the severe impact of these drugs on American society, including public health crises and
strain on healthcare systems. It criticizes Canada for not doing enough to curb the production and
distribution of these drugs, which are often smuggled into the U.S. by drug trafficking
organizations (DTOs) and transnational cartels. In response, the order imposes additional tariffs on
Canadian products to pressure Canada into taking more effective action against drug trafficking.

The executive order declares a national emergency under the International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (IEEPA) and the National Emergencies Act (NEA), expanding the scope of a previous emergency
declaration related to the southern border. It imposes a 25% tariff on most Canadian goods and a 10%
tariff on Canadian energy resources. These tariffs are intended to remain until Canada takes
sufficient steps to address the drug crisis. The order also outlines procedures for implementing
these tariffs and specifies that no duty-free treatment will be available for the affected goods.

The order authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with other key officials,
to take necessary actions to implement the tariffs and monitor the situation. It also allows for the
possibility of increasing tariffs if Canada retaliates. The order emphasizes the need for immediate
and decisive action to protect American citizens and maintain national security, urging Canada to
cooperate in resolving the drug trafficking issue.

## American Heart Month, 2025 (Presidential Actions, February 3, 2025)

February is American Heart Month, a time to raise awareness about heart disease, the leading cause
of death in the United States. The proclamation by President Donald J. Trump emphasizes the impact
of heart disease on countless lives and families across the nation. It highlights the progress made
in medical science and technology, which has improved the ability to treat and prevent heart
disease. The President's administration is committed to reducing healthcare costs and promoting a
healthier future for all Americans by addressing risk factors such as obesity, high blood pressure,
and smoking.

The proclamation encourages individuals to make small lifestyle changes that can significantly
impact heart health. It also mentions the administration's efforts to tackle issues related to Big
Pharma and investigate the rise in chronic diseases and childhood health problems. The President
calls on Americans to participate in National Wear Red Day on February 7, 2025, to show support for
the fight against heart disease. The proclamation is part of a long-standing tradition, as Congress
has requested the President to designate February as American Heart Month since 1963.

Overall, the message is one of hope and action, urging Americans to take care of their health and
work together to combat heart disease. The proclamation serves as a reminder of the importance of
heart health and the collective effort needed to address this critical issue.

## Career and Technical Education Month, 2025 (Presidential Actions, February 3, 2025)

In February 2025, President Trump declared it Career and Technical Education Month to emphasize the
importance of vocational training in the United States. He highlighted that hardworking Americans
are crucial to the nation's success and that his administration is committed to providing students
and workers with the necessary skills to thrive in a rapidly changing technological landscape. By
investing in career and technical education, the administration aims to strengthen the workforce and
boost the economy, ensuring that Americans have the skills needed for high-demand careers,
particularly in fields like science, technology, and engineering.

President Trump mentioned the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act,
which he signed during his first term. This act has provided millions of students with valuable
vocational opportunities, contributing to significant economic growth and development. The
administration's goal is to make technology work for Americans, not the other way around, by
equipping people with real skills for real careers that are essential for community development.

Looking forward, the administration plans to continue investing in the next generation by expanding
access to high-quality career and technical education. This initiative aims to rebuild the economy,
raise wages, and strengthen families, ultimately positioning America as a leader in innovation and
entrepreneurship. By offering more alternatives to traditional higher education, the administration
seeks to prepare students for the 21st-century economy, ensuring that the nation remains competitive
on a global scale.

## Progress on the Situation at Our Southern Border (Presidential Actions, February 3, 2025)

The executive order issued on February 3, 2025, addresses the situation at the U.S. southern border,
focusing on the threat posed by Mexican drug trafficking organizations and other illegal activities.
The President has determined that these activities constitute a significant threat to U.S. national
security, foreign policy, and economy. To counter this, the President initially imposed tariffs on
Mexican products but has now paused these tariffs to allow time to assess Mexico's efforts in
addressing the crisis. The pause will last until March 4, 2025, during which the situation will be
closely monitored by various U.S. government officials.

The order acknowledges that Mexico has taken steps to mitigate illegal migration and drug
trafficking, but it remains to be seen if these actions are sufficient. During the pause, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, along with other key officials, will evaluate the situation. If the
crisis worsens or if Mexico's efforts are deemed inadequate, the President may reinstate the tariffs
immediately. The order also includes provisions to ensure that if any part of it is invalidated, the
rest remains effective.

Overall, this executive order reflects a strategic approach to managing the border crisis by
leveraging economic measures while allowing time for diplomatic and cooperative efforts with Mexico.
It highlights the importance of assessing the effectiveness of international cooperation in
addressing cross-border issues and maintaining national security.

## A Plan for Establishing a United States Sovereign Wealth Fund (Presidential Actions, February 3, 2025)

On February 3, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order to create a U.S. sovereign wealth
fund. The purpose of this fund is to manage the country's wealth for the benefit of American
citizens. It aims to ensure long-term financial stability, reduce taxes for families and small
businesses, secure economic prosperity for future generations, and enhance the U.S.'s economic and
strategic leadership globally. The fund will be developed by the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Secretary of Commerce, who will submit a detailed plan to the President within 90 days. This plan
will include strategies for funding, investment, structure, and governance, as well as legal
considerations for establishing the fund.

A sovereign wealth fund is a state-owned investment fund that manages a country's financial assets.
These funds are typically created from surplus revenues, such as those from natural resources or
foreign exchange reserves. They are used to diversify a country's economy and preserve wealth for
future generations. The U.S. sovereign wealth fund could potentially be funded by government-owned
assets, such as tariffs or other revenues, although the specifics are not yet clear. The fund could
invest in various assets, including stocks, bonds, real estate, and infrastructure projects.

The executive order emphasizes that the creation of the sovereign wealth fund should not interfere
with existing legal authorities or budgetary functions. The establishment of this fund is seen as a
significant step towards enhancing the U.S.'s financial health and international influence, although
it faces challenges due to the country's existing budget deficit.

## Progress on the Situation at Our Northern Border (Presidential Actions, February 3, 2025)

The executive order titled "Progress on the Situation at Our Northern Border" addresses concerns
about illegal activities, such as drug trafficking and illegal migration, occurring at the
U.S.-Canada border. The President has identified these issues as a significant threat to U.S.
national security, foreign policy, and the economy. To counter this threat, the President initially
decided to impose tariffs on Canadian goods. However, recognizing Canada's recent efforts to tackle
these issues, the implementation of these tariffs has been paused until March 4, 2025, to allow time
to assess the effectiveness of Canada's actions.

During this pause, U.S. officials, including the Secretary of Homeland Security and other key
advisors, will continue to monitor the situation at the northern border. If the situation worsens or
if Canada fails to take adequate measures, the President may decide to enforce the tariffs
immediately.

## National Security Presidential Memorandum/NSPM-2 (Presidential Actions, February 4, 2025)

The National Security Presidential Memorandum/NSPM-2, issued on February 4, 2025, is an executive
order aimed at imposing maximum pressure on Iran to prevent it from acquiring nuclear weapons and to
counter its influence in the region. The order highlights Iran's history of hostility towards the
United States and its allies, its support for terrorist organizations, and its human rights abuses.
It emphasizes the need to deny Iran any path to nuclear weapons and to stop its support for
terrorism and regional aggression.

The memorandum outlines a comprehensive strategy involving multiple U.S. government departments and
agencies. Key actions include imposing and enforcing sanctions, driving Iran's oil exports to zero,
and isolating Iran diplomatically. The Secretary of the Treasury is tasked with enforcing sanctions
and denying Iran access to revenue, while the Secretary of State is to lead efforts to isolate Iran
internationally. The Attorney General is directed to take legal actions against Iranian-sponsored
networks and assets in the U.S. and abroad.

Overall, the executive order seeks to use economic, diplomatic, and legal measures to pressure Iran
into compliance with international norms and to protect U.S. national security interests. It
underscores the U.S. commitment to preventing Iran from developing nuclear capabilities and curbing
its support for terrorism and regional destabilization efforts.

## Withdrawing the United States from and Ending Funding to Certain United Nations Organizations and Reviewing United States Support to All International Organizations (Presidential Actions, February 4, 2025)

The executive order issued on February 4, 2025, by the U.S. President outlines a significant shift
in the United States' involvement with certain United Nations organizations. The order highlights
concerns that some UN bodies, such as the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC), the UN Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), have deviated from their original missions and are acting against
U.S. interests. As a result, the U.S. will cease participation in the UNHRC and stop funding UNRWA,
citing issues such as infiltration by terrorist organizations and anti-Israel sentiment.

The order mandates a review of U.S. membership in UNESCO to assess its alignment with American
interests, particularly concerning any anti-Semitic or anti-Israel biases. Additionally, the
Secretary of State, in collaboration with the U.S. Ambassador to the UN, is tasked with reviewing
all international organizations and treaties the U.S. is involved with to determine if they align
with national interests. This review aims to identify organizations that may require reform or from
which the U.S. should withdraw.

Furthermore, the executive order instructs that no U.S. funds be used for contributions to UNRWA and
the UNHRC. It also requires the Secretary of State to inform relevant UN bodies of the U.S.'s
decision to halt funding and participation. This move reflects a broader strategy to reassess and
potentially reduce U.S. involvement in international organizations that do not align with its
strategic interests.

## Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China (Presidential Actions, February 5, 2025)

On February 5, 2025, the U.S. President issued an executive order amending a previous order from
February 1, 2025, which imposed duties on products from China to address the synthetic opioid supply
chain. The amendment specifically changes how certain goods are treated under the "de minimis" rule,
which allows for duty-free treatment of low-value imports. The amendment states that this duty-free
treatment will no longer apply once the Secretary of Commerce confirms that systems are in place to
efficiently collect tariffs on these goods.

The executive order aims to combat the flow of synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, from China to
the United States. It highlights the role of Chinese chemical companies and transnational criminal
organizations in producing and distributing these drugs. The order is part of a broader strategy to
address the opioid crisis, which has been declared a national emergency due to its severe impact on
American society.

## Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports (Presidential Actions, February 5, 2025)

The executive order titled "Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports," signed on February 5, 2025, by
President Trump, aims to ensure that women and girls have fair and safe opportunities to compete in
sports. The order emphasizes that allowing men to compete in women's sports is unfair and dangerous,
and it violates Title IX, which mandates equal opportunities for women in educational institutions
receiving federal funds. The order directs the withdrawal of federal funding from educational
programs that allow male participation in women's sports, thereby denying women equal athletic
opportunities.

The order outlines specific actions to enforce this policy. It instructs the Secretary of Education
to ensure compliance with court orders that vacated previous Title IX regulations and to protect
female athletic opportunities by clarifying that women's sports are reserved for women. It also
mandates federal agencies to review and potentially rescind funding from non-compliant educational
programs. Additionally, the Department of Justice is tasked with providing resources to enforce
these policies swiftly.

Furthermore, the order addresses broader sports policies by convening representatives from major
athletic organizations and state attorneys general to promote fair and safe policies for female
athletes. It also involves international efforts to promote sex-based categories in sports
competitions. The order does not create any new legal rights but aims to reinforce existing
protections for women in sports.

## Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies (Presidential Actions, February 6, 2025)

The executive order issued on February 6, 2025, directs the heads of U.S. executive departments and
agencies to review all funding provided to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The goal is to
ensure that future funding aligns with the interests of the United States and the priorities of the
current administration. The administration believes that some NGOs have been using taxpayer dollars
in ways that undermine the security, prosperity, and safety of the American people. Therefore, the
order aims to stop funding NGOs that are perceived to be against national interests.

The memorandum requires agency heads to make funding decisions based on the administration's goals,
applicable laws, and their judgment. This directive is part of a broader effort by the
administration to reshape the nonprofit sector and its role both domestically and internationally.
Organizations that align ideologically with the administration are expected to face fewer
challenges, while those that do not may experience increased scrutiny and potential funding cuts.
This could significantly impact NGOs involved in international work, humanitarian aid, and policy
advocacy, particularly in areas like climate change, immigration, and equity initiatives. These
organizations may need to seek alternative funding sources and adjust their focus to align more
closely with the administration's interests.

## Eradicating Anti-Christian Bias (Presidential Actions, February 6, 2025)

President Donald Trump issued an executive order on February 6, 2025, aimed at eradicating
anti-Christian bias in the United States. The order emphasizes the protection of religious freedoms
and addresses concerns about the previous administration's alleged targeting of Christians. It
claims that the Biden administration engaged in actions that discriminated against Christians, such
as prosecuting peaceful pro-life demonstrators and ignoring violence against Christian institutions.
In response, Trump pardoned individuals convicted under these circumstances and condemned the lack
of action against anti-Christian violence.

To address these issues, the executive order establishes a Task Force to Eradicate Anti-Christian
Bias within the Department of Justice. This task force, chaired by the Attorney General, includes
members from various government departments and agencies. Its responsibilities include reviewing
past government actions for anti-Christian bias, recommending policy changes, and ensuring the
protection of religious liberties. The task force is also tasked with identifying deficiencies in
existing laws and suggesting improvements to prevent anti-Christian conduct.

The executive order underscores the administration's commitment to protecting religious freedom and
ensuring that Christians can practice their faith without fear of discrimination or retaliation. It
aims to rectify past injustices and prevent future anti-Christian bias by enforcing existing laws
and potentially recommending new legislative actions. The task force will operate for two years,
during which it will report its findings and recommendations to the President.

## Imposing Sanctions on the International Criminal Court (Presidential Actions, February 6, 2025)

On February 6, 2025, U.S. President Donald Trump issued an executive order imposing sanctions on the
International Criminal Court (ICC). The order accuses the ICC of engaging in "illegitimate and
baseless actions" against the United States and its ally, Israel. The ICC had issued arrest warrants
for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant, accusing
them of war crimes during the conflict with Hamas in Gaza. The U.S. and Israel are not members of
the ICC, and Trump argues that the court's actions threaten U.S. national security and undermine its
sovereignty.

The executive order authorizes economic and travel sanctions against ICC officials involved in
investigations against U.S. citizens or allies. This includes freezing assets and blocking entry
into the U.S. for those individuals and their families. Trump emphasizes that the U.S. opposes any
ICC actions against non-member countries like the U.S. and Israel, and expects its allies to do the
same. The order also declares a national emergency to address the perceived threat posed by the
ICC's actions.

The sanctions have sparked criticism from international bodies and human rights organizations, who
argue that they undermine global accountability for serious crimes. The ICC, which prosecutes
individuals for war crimes and crimes against humanity, has vowed to continue its work despite the
sanctions. Critics, including Human Rights Watch, warn that the sanctions could hinder the ICC's
ability to deliver justice and protect victims of atrocities worldwide.

## President Trump Announces Appointments to the White House Faith Office (Presidential Actions, February 7, 2025)

President Donald Trump has announced the establishment of the White House Faith Office, which aims
to empower faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to better serve
families and communities. This office will be part of the Domestic Policy Council and will work to
ensure that these organizations can compete fairly for federal grants and funding opportunities. The
office will also focus on protecting religious liberty and ending religious discrimination by the
federal government.

Pastor Paula White-Cain has been appointed as a Senior Advisor to the White House Faith Office. She
has a long history of advocating for religious freedom and humanitarian rights and has previously
served as an advisor to President Trump. Jennifer S. Korn will serve as the Deputy Assistant to the
President and Faith Director, bringing her experience in engaging with various communities during
Trump's previous term. Jackson Lane will join as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy
Director of Faith Engagement.

The executive order establishing this office also includes a task force to address anti-Christian
bias and discrimination within the federal government. This task force, led by Attorney General Pam
Bondi, will work to identify and halt any anti-Christian targeting and ensure the protection of
religious liberties. The White House Faith Office will consult with faith leaders on policy changes
and collaborate with other agencies to support faith-based organizations in obtaining government
grants and implementing religious liberty protections.

## Establishment of The White House Faith Office (Presidential Actions, February 7, 2025)

On February 7, 2025, President Donald Trump signed an executive order to establish the White House
Faith Office. This office is designed to empower faith-based entities, community organizations, and
houses of worship to better serve American families and communities. The office will be part of the
Domestic Policy Council and will work closely with various government agencies to ensure that these
organizations can compete fairly for federal grants and funding opportunities. The executive order
emphasizes the importance of religious liberty and aims to eliminate any form of religious
discrimination by the federal government.

The White House Faith Office will have several key responsibilities. It will consult with faith and
community leaders to gather expertise on various issues, such as protecting women and children,
strengthening families, and promoting religious liberty. The office will also make policy
recommendations to the President and advise on the implementation of policies that enable
faith-based organizations to serve communities more effectively. Additionally, it will coordinate
with agencies to provide training and education on religious liberty and help faith-based
organizations access government grants.

The executive order also amends previous orders related to faith-based initiatives, renaming the
existing White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives to the White House Faith
Office. Each federal agency is required to appoint a Faith Liaison to oversee efforts to support the
office's mission.

## Protecting Second Amendment Rights (Presidential Actions, February 7, 2025)

The executive order titled "Protecting Second Amendment Rights," issued on February 7, 2025, by
President Trump, emphasizes the importance of the Second Amendment as a fundamental safeguard of
security and liberty in the United States. The order asserts that the right to keep and bear arms is
essential for protecting all other rights and should not be infringed. It directs the Attorney
General to review all executive actions from January 2021 to January 2025 that might have affected
Second Amendment rights and to propose a plan to protect these rights.

The Attorney General is tasked with examining various aspects, including rules from the Department
of Justice and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, as well as actions related
to firearms regulations and litigation positions that could impact Second Amendment rights. The
review aims to identify any ongoing infringements and suggest measures to safeguard these rights.
The Attorney General must present a proposed plan of action to the President within 30 days, which
will then be finalized and implemented in collaboration with the Domestic Policy Advisor.

This executive order is seen as a move to potentially roll back gun control measures implemented
during the Biden administration, including regulations on ghost guns and expanded background checks.
It has been praised by gun rights advocates for prioritizing Second Amendment protections but
criticized by gun control groups for potentially undermining public safety efforts. The order
signals a shift in federal firearms policy, with a focus on enhancing gun rights and reassessing
previous regulations.

## Addressing Egregious Actions of The Republic of South Africa (Presidential Actions, February 7, 2025)

On February 7, 2025, the U.S. President issued an executive order in response to actions taken by
the Republic of South Africa. The order criticizes South Africa's Expropriation Act 13 of 2024,
which allows the government to seize land from ethnic minority Afrikaners without compensation. The
U.S. views this as a violation of human rights and a continuation of policies that dismantle equal
opportunities and fuel violence against certain racial groups. Additionally, South Africa's foreign
policy actions, such as its stance against Israel and its relations with Iran, are seen as threats
to U.S. national security and foreign policy interests.

The executive order outlines the U.S. policy to halt all aid and assistance to South Africa as long
as these practices continue. It also emphasizes support for Afrikaner refugees facing racial
discrimination, including property confiscation. U.S. agencies are directed to stop foreign aid to
South Africa, with exceptions only if deemed necessary by agency heads. The order also prioritizes
the resettlement of Afrikaner refugees in the U.S. through the Refugee Admissions Program.

The order is part of a broader shift in U.S.-South Africa relations, reflecting concerns over South
Africa's domestic policies and international alignments. It underscores the U.S. commitment to
addressing human rights violations and protecting its national interests, while also highlighting
the complexities of South Africa's efforts to address historical land ownership disparities rooted
in its apartheid past.

## Gulf of America Day, 2025 (Presidential Actions, February 9, 2025)

On February 9, 2025, President Donald Trump proclaimed the day as the first Gulf of America Day.
This proclamation follows an executive order he signed on January 20, 2025, which renamed the Gulf
of Mexico to the Gulf of America. The renaming was part of a broader initiative to restore names
that honor American greatness. The area now called the Gulf of America is bordered by the U.S.
states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida, extending to the boundaries with
Mexico and Cuba.

The renaming was justified by the President as a way to acknowledge the Gulf's historical
significance to the United States. Trump emphasized that the Gulf has been a crucial asset to the
nation and remains an integral part of America's identity. The proclamation of Gulf of America Day
is intended to foster national pride and encourage Americans to celebrate this change with various
programs and activities.

President Trump called upon public officials and citizens to observe Gulf of America Day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities. This move is part of his administration's efforts to promote
American pride and commemorate historical changes that reflect the nation's values and heritage.

## Ending Procurement and Forced Use of Paper Straws (Presidential Actions, February 10, 2025)

On February 10, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order to stop the federal
government from buying and using paper straws. The order argues that paper straws are less
effective, more expensive, and potentially harmful to health due to the chemicals used in their
production. It also points out that paper straws often come wrapped in plastic, which contradicts
the environmental benefits they are supposed to offer. The order aims to reverse previous policies
that discouraged the use of plastic straws, which Trump had revoked earlier in January 2025.

The executive order directs federal agencies to stop purchasing paper straws and to remove any
policies that disfavor plastic straws. Within 45 days, a national strategy is to be developed to end
the use of paper straws, addressing policies that ban or penalize plastic straws and exploring other
methods to implement this policy nationwide. This move is part of a broader effort to promote the
use of plastic straws over paper ones, citing concerns over the functionality and environmental
impact of paper straws.

The order also includes general provisions to ensure it does not interfere with existing legal
authorities or budgetary processes. This decision has sparked debate, with environmental groups
criticizing the move for potentially increasing plastic waste, while the plastics industry has
welcomed it as a practical solution.

## Eliminating the Federal Executive Institute (Presidential Actions, February 10, 2025)

On February 10, 2025, President Donald Trump signed an executive order to eliminate the Federal
Executive Institute (FEI), a government program established over 50 years ago to provide leadership
training for federal bureaucrats. The decision is part of a broader effort to reduce government
inefficiency and ensure that taxpayer dollars are used effectively. The administration believes that
the FEI has contributed to the growth of a bureaucratic class in Washington, D.C., which does not
directly benefit American families or align with national interests.

The executive order directs the Office of Personnel Management to take all necessary steps to close
the FEI and revokes previous documents that established or required its existence. This move is
consistent with the administration's policy to eliminate government programs that do not provide
measurable benefits to the American people. The order emphasizes that the government should focus on
serving taxpayers and upholding the Constitution rather than maintaining a large federal
bureaucracy.

While the closure of the FEI is intended to cut wasteful spending, some critics argue that
leadership training is essential for effective government operations. The FEI has been a valuable
resource for developing leadership skills among federal employees, and its elimination raises
questions about how the government will continue to train and develop its workforce. The
administration has not yet provided a detailed plan for how it will address these concerns or what
alternative training programs might be implemented.

## Pausing Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Enforcement to Further American Economic and National Security (Presidential Actions, February 10, 2025)

On February 10, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order to pause the enforcement of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for 180 days. The order argues that the FCPA has been
overextended and misused, negatively impacting U.S. interests and foreign policy objectives. The
President believes that the current enforcement of the FCPA hinders American companies' global
competitiveness and, consequently, national security. The order aims to reduce barriers to American
commerce abroad by reviewing and potentially revising the guidelines for FCPA enforcement.

During this 180-day period, the Attorney General is instructed to stop initiating new FCPA
investigations unless an exception is warranted. The Attorney General will also review existing
investigations to ensure they align with the President's foreign policy goals and issue updated
guidelines to promote American economic interests. The review period can be extended for another 180
days if necessary. After the new guidelines are issued, any ongoing or new FCPA actions must be
specifically authorized by the Attorney General.

The executive order emphasizes the need to prioritize American economic competitiveness and
efficient use of federal resources. It reflects a shift in focus towards protecting U.S. companies
from what is perceived as excessive and unpredictable enforcement of the FCPA. However, it is
important to note that bribery remains illegal, and companies should continue to maintain compliance
programs to adhere to anti-corruption laws both domestically and internationally.

## Adjusting Imports of Steel into The United States (Presidential Actions, February 10, 2025)

The executive order issued on February 10, 2025, by President Trump focuses on adjusting the imports
of steel into the United States to protect national security. Initially, in 2018, a 25% tariff was
imposed on steel imports from most countries to address the threat posed by excessive steel imports
to U.S. national security. Over time, some countries were exempted or given alternative
arrangements, but these have not been effective in reducing the threat. As a result, the order
terminates these exemptions and arrangements, reinstating the 25% tariff on steel imports from
countries like Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the EU, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, the UK, and
Ukraine, effective March 12, 2025.

The order also highlights the failure of alternative agreements with certain countries to adequately
address the issues of excess steel capacity and unfair trading practices, particularly those
involving China. The increased imports from exempted countries have negatively impacted the U.S.
steel industry, leading to depressed performance and capacity utilization rates below the desired
80%. The proclamation aims to ensure that the domestic steel industry can sustain its production
capacity and protect national security by reapplying the tariffs universally.

Additionally, the order addresses the issue of derivative steel products, which have been used to
circumvent the tariffs. It expands the scope of the tariffs to include more derivative steel
articles and terminates the product exclusion process that allowed certain imports to bypass the
tariffs. This comprehensive approach is intended to strengthen the U.S. steel industry and prevent
further impairment of national security by ensuring that all steel imports are subject to the same
tariff conditions.

## Implementing The President’s “Department of Government Efficiency” Workforce Optimization Initiative (Presidential Actions, February 11, 2025)

The executive order titled "Implementing The President’s 'Department of Government Efficiency'
Workforce Optimization Initiative" aims to transform the federal bureaucracy by reducing waste and
inefficiency. The order introduces measures to shrink the federal workforce, requiring agencies to
hire no more than one new employee for every four that leave, except in areas related to public
safety, immigration enforcement, or law enforcement. This initiative is part of a broader effort to
make the government more accountable and efficient, ultimately benefiting American families,
workers, and taxpayers.

To achieve these goals, the order mandates agency heads to develop data-driven hiring plans in
consultation with the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) Team Leads. These plans should
focus on filling positions in high-need areas and require approval from DOGE Team Leads before
hiring decisions are made. Additionally, the order calls for large-scale reductions in force (RIFs),
prioritizing non-essential functions and diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives. The Office of
Personnel Management (OPM) is tasked with revising federal hiring suitability criteria to ensure
high standards of conduct among federal employees.

The order also includes provisions for agency reorganization, requiring agency heads to report on
statutory requirements and consider eliminating or consolidating subcomponents. Exemptions are
allowed for positions necessary for national security, homeland security, or public safety. Overall,
this executive order seeks to streamline the federal workforce and improve government efficiency
through strategic hiring and organizational restructuring.

## President Trump Announces the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board (Presidential Actions, February 11, 2025)

President Donald J. Trump announced the formation of the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
(PIAB) on, February 11, 2025. This board is composed of a group of individuals who are considered
distinguished and trusted patriots. Their main role is to advise the President on critical national
security challenges and ensure that the Intelligence Community aligns with the President's "America
First" agenda. The board members are selected for their diverse experience and intellect, which are
expected to help restore integrity within the Intelligence Community.

The appointed members of the PIAB include Devin Gerald Nunes as the Chair, along with Scott Glabe,
Amaryllis Fox Kennedy, Brad Robert Wenstrup, Wayne Berman, Reince Priebus, Robert O’Brien, Joshua
Lobel, Sander R. Gerber, Katie Miller, Jeremy Katz, and Thomas Ollis Hicks, Jr. These individuals
bring a wide range of expertise and perspectives to the board, which is intended to enhance the
effectiveness and accountability of the Intelligence Community in addressing the nation's security
issues.

## Adjusting Imports of Aluminum into The United States (Presidential Actions, February 11, 2025)

In this executive order, the U.S. President addresses the issue of aluminum imports, which are seen
as a threat to national security. Initially, a 10% tariff was imposed on aluminum imports in 2018 to
protect domestic industries. However, this measure has not been effective enough due to global
excess capacity, particularly from China, and loopholes that allowed some countries to avoid these
tariffs. As a result, domestic aluminum production has suffered, with decreased production and
facility closures.

To counter these issues, the President has decided to increase the tariff on aluminum imports from
10% to 25%. This increase aims to better protect the U.S. aluminum industry by making foreign
aluminum more expensive and less competitive in the U.S. market. Additionally, the order terminates
previous agreements with countries like Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, the EU, and the UK,
which had allowed them to avoid these tariffs. These countries will now be subject to the same 25%
tariff as other nations.

The executive order also addresses the problem of derivative aluminum products, which have been used
to circumvent tariffs. It expands the tariffs to include these products and ends the process that
allowed for product exclusions. This comprehensive approach is intended to close loopholes and
ensure that the tariffs effectively support the U.S. aluminum industry, aiming for a production
capacity utilization of at least 80%, which is considered necessary for national security.

## One Voice for America’s Foreign Relations (Presidential Actions, February 12, 2025)

The executive order titled "One Voice for America’s Foreign Relations" emphasizes the President's
authority over U.S. foreign policy, as granted by Article II of the Constitution. It mandates that
all government officials involved in foreign policy must act under the President's direction. The
Secretary of State is tasked with ensuring that the workforce implementing foreign policy is
effective and loyal to the President's agenda. Failure to comply with these directives can lead to
disciplinary actions, including termination.

The order outlines specific definitions for terms related to the Foreign Service and Civil Service
employees, ensuring clarity in its application. It also grants the Secretary of State the discretion
to take necessary personnel actions when employees fail to meet performance standards. The Secretary
is responsible for reforming the Foreign Service to align with the President's foreign policy goals,
including revising recruitment, evaluation, and training processes.

Finally, the order clarifies that it does not override existing legal authorities or create new
legal rights. It must be implemented in accordance with applicable laws and budgetary constraints.
This ensures that the order respects the legal framework and does not infringe on the powers of
other branches of government or existing laws.

## Establishing the President’s Make America Healthy Again Commission (Presidential Actions, February 13, 2025)

President Trump has signed an executive order to establish the "Make America Healthy Again
Commission" to address the growing health crisis in the United States. The commission aims to tackle
chronic diseases, which are prevalent among Americans, by focusing on prevention rather than just
treatment. The U.S. lags behind other developed countries in life expectancy, and many Americans
suffer from chronic diseases and mental health issues. The commission will prioritize research on
why Americans are getting sick, work with farmers to ensure healthy food, and expand treatment
options to promote healthy lifestyles.

The commission will initially focus on childhood chronic diseases, which have been rising
alarmingly. It will study the causes of these diseases, such as diet, environmental factors, and
medication overuse, and provide recommendations to the President. The commission will also assess
current health programs and data to improve transparency and effectiveness. Within 100 days, it will
submit an assessment of childhood chronic diseases, and within 180 days, a strategy to address these
issues.

The commission is chaired by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and includes various
government officials. It aims to empower Americans through transparency and open-source data, avoid
conflicts of interest in health research, and ensure that the U.S. food supply is healthy and
affordable. The commission's efforts are part of a broader initiative to redirect national focus
towards understanding and reducing chronic disease rates, especially among children, by promoting
healthier lifestyles and improving the healthcare system.

## Establishing the National Energy Dominance Council (Presidential Actions, February 14, 2025)

The executive order establishes the National Energy Dominance Council to make the United States a
leader in energy production. The Council aims to use America's vast natural resources to boost the
economy, create jobs, and reduce reliance on foreign energy imports. The Council will focus on
expanding all forms of energy production, including oil, natural gas, coal, and renewable sources
like biofuels and geothermal energy.

The Council will be chaired by the Secretary of the Interior, with the Secretary of Energy as Vice
Chair. It includes members from various government departments and agencies. The Council's role is
to advise the President on energy production strategies, improve energy-related processes, and
promote private sector investments. It will also work on reducing unnecessary regulations and
enhancing cooperation between the government and private energy sectors.

The Council is tasked with developing a National Energy Dominance Strategy, which includes setting
long-term goals for energy production and ensuring consistency in energy policies. It will also
recommend actions to increase energy production, such as building infrastructure and reopening power
plants. The Council will consult with state, local, and tribal governments, as well as private
sector stakeholders, to gather feedback and improve energy production efforts.
