## United States

### US and Europe Clash Over Ukraine War Blame at UN

In a surprising move, the United States has chosen not to blame Russia for the ongoing war in
Ukraine, causing a rift with its European allies. During recent United Nations votes, the US stood
apart by voting against a resolution backed by Europe that condemned Russia's actions and called for
the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. This decision marks a significant shift in US foreign
policy under President Donald Trump, who has opted to engage in direct negotiations with Russia,
leaving Ukraine and its European supporters feeling sidelined.

The US's stance has led to tensions within the UN, as European countries, led by France, pushed for
amendments to a US-drafted resolution to explicitly mention Russia's aggression. Despite these
efforts, the US abstained from voting on its own resolution after the amendments were made. This
division highlights the growing differences in how the US and its European allies view the path to
peace in Ukraine. As the war enters its third year, the international community remains divided on
the best approach to end the conflict and restore peace in the region.

### Trump and Macron Seek Peace Amid Ukraine-Russia Tensions

In a recent meeting at the White House, President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron
showed a united front, despite differing views on the Ukraine-Russia conflict. Trump expressed
optimism that the war in Ukraine might soon end, suggesting that Russian President Vladimir Putin is
open to European peacekeepers in Ukraine. Macron, however, emphasized the importance of ensuring
that any peace agreement does not compromise Ukraine's sovereignty. Both leaders agreed on the need
for a verifiable truce and discussed potential economic partnerships, including a deal involving
Ukraine's critical minerals. While their countries have different stances at the United Nations,
Trump and Macron's discussions focused on finding common ground to end the war and support Ukraine's
future security.

## World

### Mourning and Unity: Beirut Bids Farewell to Hezbollah Leader Nasrallah

In the heart of Beirut, tens of thousands gathered to mourn the loss of Hezbollah leader Hassan
Nasrallah. The funeral, held at the Camille Chamoun Sports City Stadium, was a powerful display of
unity and resilience for the group, which has faced significant challenges since Nasrallah's death.
The stadium was filled with the yellow and green flags of Hezbollah, as supporters from Lebanon and
beyond came to pay their respects. Nasrallah, who was killed in an Israeli airstrike, had been a
prominent figure in the region, known for his leadership and influence over the past three decades.

The funeral was not just a moment of mourning but also a statement of defiance against the ongoing
pressures faced by Hezbollah. Despite the loss of their leader and the mounting military pressure
from Israel, the group aimed to project strength and solidarity. The event was attended by
delegations from Iran, Iraq, and Yemen, highlighting the regional significance of Nasrallah's
leadership. As his body was laid to rest, the legacy of Hassan Nasrallah remained a topic of deep
admiration and controversy, reflecting the complex political and sectarian dynamics of the Middle
East.

## Business

### SpaceSail's Ambitious Satellite Plans

In the race to provide global internet coverage, China's SpaceSail is making significant strides.
The company, a competitor to Elon Musk's Starlink, plans to deploy 15,000 satellites by 2030. This
ambitious project aims to create a vast network of satellites, known as the "Thousand Sails
Constellation," to offer worldwide internet access. SpaceSail has already begun its journey by
launching 648 satellites this year and has signed agreements to provide internet services in
countries like Brazil. The company is also in discussions with over 30 other nations to expand its
reach.

SpaceSail is not alone in its quest to dominate the satellite internet market. Other companies, such
as Jeff Bezos's Project Kuiper and Canada's Telesat, are also planning to launch thousands of
satellites. This surge in satellite deployments promises to improve internet access in remote areas
but raises concerns about space debris and environmental impacts. As more satellites fill the skies,
the risk of collisions increases, and scientists worry about the potential harm to Earth's
atmosphere from burning satellite materials. Despite these challenges, the push for satellite-based
internet continues, driven by the promise of connecting the world like never before.

## Technology

### The Great Crypto Heist: North Korea's $1.5 Billion Digital Theft

In a shocking turn of events, North Korea has been linked to the largest cryptocurrency heist in
history, stealing a staggering $1.5 billion from the Dubai-based exchange, Bybit. The attack, which
took place in February 2025, involved the theft of over 400,000 Ethereum and staked Ethereum coins.
These digital assets were initially stored in a secure "Multisig Cold Wallet," a method considered
one of the safest for storing large sums of cryptocurrency. However, the attackers managed to
transfer the funds to a hot wallet and then out of Bybit entirely, leaving the crypto community in
disbelief.

The heist was attributed to the notorious Lazarus Group, a state-sponsored hacking collective from
North Korea. Known for their sophisticated cyber tactics, the group exploited vulnerabilities in
Bybit's systems, manipulating the user interface to gain unauthorized access to the cold wallet.
This breach has highlighted the persistent threat of cybercrime in the cryptocurrency industry,
emphasizing the need for enhanced security measures. Despite the severity of the attack, Bybit has
assured its users that other cold wallets remain secure and has taken steps to recover the stolen
funds, collaborating with blockchain analysis firms and offering a bounty for information leading to
the recovery of the assets.

## Science

### Asteroid 2024 YR4: No Longer a Threat to Earth

Asteroid 2024 YR4 was once a cause for concern among scientists and the public alike. Discovered in
December 2024, it was initially thought to have a small chance of impacting Earth in 2032. This
potential threat led to increased monitoring and analysis by space agencies worldwide. Over the past
months, the European Space Agency (ESA) and NASA closely tracked the asteroid's path, using advanced
telescopic observations to refine its orbit. Initially, the probability of impact rose to as high as
2.8%, causing some alarm. However, recent observations have significantly reduced this risk to a
mere 0.001%, effectively eliminating the threat of collision with Earth.

The news of the reduced risk has brought relief to many. The asteroid, which is estimated to be
between 40 and 90 meters wide, could have caused severe damage if it had impacted Earth. The global
planetary defense community, including ESA's Near-Earth Object Coordination Centre, played a crucial
role in monitoring and assessing the situation. Their efforts have ensured that Asteroid 2024 YR4 is
no longer a priority on the risk list. Future observations, including those planned with the James
Webb Space Telescope, will continue to study the asteroid to improve our understanding of its size
and trajectory. This incident highlights the importance of international collaboration and advanced
technology in planetary defense efforts.

## Health

### Lifestyle Choices Matter More Than Genes for Early Death Risk

A recent study has revealed that lifestyle and environmental factors have a more significant impact
on the risk of premature death than genetics. Researchers analyzed data from nearly half a million
participants in the UK Biobank, focusing on 164 environmental factors and genetic risk scores for 22
major diseases. The study found that environmental factors, such as smoking, physical activity, and
living conditions, explained 17% of the variation in the risk of death, while genetic predisposition
accounted for less than 2%. This suggests that lifestyle choices and socioeconomic conditions play a
crucial role in determining health outcomes and longevity.

The study highlights the importance of the "exposome," which encompasses all environmental exposures
individuals encounter throughout their lives. Key findings indicate that smoking, socioeconomic
status, and physical activity are among the most influential factors affecting mortality and
biological aging. The research underscores the potential benefits of focusing on modifiable
environmental factors to prevent age-related diseases and premature death. By addressing these
factors through individual choices and policy interventions, there is an opportunity to improve
public health and extend life expectancy.

## Entertainment

### Tensions Rise on 'It Ends With Us' Set: Blake Lively Speaks Out

Blake Lively, known for her role in "It Ends With Us," has recently filed a complaint against her
co-star and director, Justin Baldoni. The film, which tells a powerful story about domestic
violence, has been overshadowed by the drama between its stars. Lively claims that Baldoni created a
hostile work environment and engaged in a smear campaign against her. She also mentioned that other
women on the set raised concerns about Baldoni's behavior, adding more weight to her allegations.
This has led to a series of legal battles, with both sides presenting their cases in court.

The tension between Lively and Baldoni was evident during the film's premiere, where they avoided
each other and did not pose for photos together. This behavior sparked curiosity and concern among
fans and the media. As the legal proceedings continue, many in the entertainment industry have shown
support for Lively, emphasizing the importance of addressing such issues in the workplace. The
situation highlights the ongoing challenges faced by women in the film industry and the need for a
safe and respectful working environment.

## Sports

### Dmitry Bivol: The New Light Heavyweight King

Dmitry Bivol has become the undisputed light heavyweight champion after defeating Artur Beterbiev in
a thrilling rematch in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. This victory was particularly sweet for Bivol, as it
avenged his previous loss to Beterbiev just four months ago. The fight was intense, with both
fighters showcasing their skills and determination. Bivol's strategy of standing firm and delivering
precise punches paid off, as he managed to outscore Beterbiev on two of the judges' scorecards,
winning by majority decision. With this victory, Bivol now holds all four major championship belts
in the light heavyweight division, marking a significant milestone in his career. As the boxing
world celebrates his achievement, fans are already speculating about a potential third fight between
these two fierce competitors.
