# The Israel-Gaza War: A Comprehensive Historical Analysis

The Israel-Gaza War, ongoing since October 2023, represents the most devastating escalation in the
protracted Gaza-Israel conflict. This war, initiated by a large-scale Hamas-led offensive against
Israel, has resulted in unprecedented casualties, widespread destruction, and a humanitarian
catastrophe in the Gaza Strip. Rooted in decades of territorial disputes, blockades, and cyclical
violence, the conflict has drawn global attention for its intensity and geopolitical ramifications.
Below, we present a detailed examination of the war’s origins, key phases, humanitarian
consequences, and broader implications.

## Historical Context of the Gaza-Israel Conflict

### From 1948 to 2005: Foundations of Conflict

The Gaza Strip emerged as a distinct entity during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, when approximately
200,000 Palestinians fled or were expelled into the region. Over subsequent decades, Israel occupied
Gaza twice: first during the 1956 Suez Crisis, which saw mass casualties and repression, and again
in 1967 during the Six-Day War, leading to prolonged military control. By 2005, Israel unilaterally
disengaged from Gaza, withdrawing settlers and troops, but maintained control over its borders,
airspace, and maritime access.

### The Hamas Era and Blockade (2007–2023)

Following Hamas’s 2006 electoral victory and 2007 takeover of Gaza, Israel imposed a comprehensive
land, air, and sea blockade, severely restricting movement and economic activity. Described by
critics as an “open-air prison,” Gaza’s population became increasingly dependent on international
aid, with 81% living below the poverty line by 2023. Four major conflicts between Israel and Hamas
occurred between 2008 and 2021, killing over 6,400 Palestinians and 300 Israelis. These wars
exacerbated infrastructure collapse and deepened humanitarian crises, setting the stage for renewed
violence.

## The 2023 Gaza War: Phases and Developments

### The 7 October 2023 Hamas-Led Offensive

On 7 October 2023, Hamas and allied militant groups launched a surprise attack dubbed “Operation
Al-Aqsa Flood,” breaching the Gaza-Israel barrier and infiltrating southern Israel. The assault
killed 1,143 Israelis and foreign nationals, predominantly civilians, while 251 hostages were taken
to Gaza. The attack, the deadliest single day for Israel since its founding, included massacres in
communities such as Be’eri and Kfar Aza, alongside rocket barrages targeting cities like Tel Aviv
and Ashkelon.

#### Israel’s Immediate Response

Within hours, Israel launched Operation “Iron Swords,” initiating airstrikes across Gaza and
mobilizing 300,000 reservists. The Israeli Air Force employed AI-driven targeting systems like
_Habsora_ (“The Gospel”), which accelerated strike decisions but raised concerns about civilian
harm. By 9 October, Defense Minister Yoav Gallant announced a “complete siege” of Gaza, cutting off
electricity, food, and fuel—a move condemned by Human Rights Watch as collective punishment.

### Ground Invasion and Northern Gaza Campaign (October–December 2023)

On 27 October, Israeli forces launched a ground invasion, focusing initially on northern Gaza. The
Israel Defense Forces (IDF) ordered the evacuation of 1.1 million residents southward, though
humanitarian corridors were inconsistently accessible. Key battles included:

#### Siege of Gaza City

The IDF encircled Gaza City by early November, engaging in intense urban combat with Hamas.
Satellite imagery revealed widespread destruction, with 25% of buildings in northern Gaza damaged or
destroyed by December. The Jabalia refugee camp, struck repeatedly by airstrikes, became a symbol of
civilian suffering, with one attack killing 106 civilians, including 54 children.

#### Shifa Hospital Controversy

In November, IDF troops raided Al-Shifa Hospital, Gaza’s largest medical facility, alleging Hamas
used it as a command center. While weapons were found, the justification for the raid remains
disputed, and the operation severely disrupted healthcare amid a growing cholera outbreak.

### Southern Front and Rafah Offensive (2024)

As the IDF pushed southward, Khan Yunis—Hamas’s stronghold—endured prolonged siege tactics. By May
2024, Israel shifted focus to Rafah, Gaza’s southernmost city, where over 1.4 million displaced
Palestinians had sought refuge. The Rafah offensive drew international condemnation, particularly
after airstrikes hit tent camps near humanitarian zones, killing 45 civilians in May 2024.

### Ceasefires and Hostage Negotiations

A week-long truce in November 2023 facilitated the release of 105 hostages and 240 Palestinian
prisoners, but negotiations stalled over Hamas’s demand for a permanent ceasefire. A second
agreement in January 2025, mediated by Qatar and Egypt, secured the release of remaining civilian
hostages in exchange for hundreds of Palestinian detainees, though Israeli soldiers captured in 2023
remain in Hamas custody.

## Humanitarian Impact and War Conduct

### Civilian Casualties and Infrastructure Destruction

As of November 2024, Palestinian deaths exceed 46,000, with 70% being women and children, while
Israeli military casualties surpass 1,600. Over 70% of Gaza’s housing stock has been destroyed or
damaged, displacing 1.9 million people. Critical infrastructure, including 15 hospitals and 58
schools, lies in ruins, exacerbating public health crises such as malnutrition and infectious
disease outbreaks.

### Allegations of War Crimes

Both sides face accusations of violating international law. Hamas’s deliberate targeting of
civilians and hostage-taking constitute war crimes under the Geneva Conventions. Israel’s use of
disproportionate force—evidenced by the bombing of residential areas and aid convoys—has drawn
scrutiny from the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which in January 2024 ordered Israel to
prevent acts of genocide. The use of the Hannibal Directive, which reportedly led to Israeli
civilian deaths during Hamas’s initial attack, remains under investigation.

## Regional and Global Repercussions

### Escalation in the West Bank and Lebanon

The war ignited parallel conflicts, including heightened violence in the West Bank, where Israeli
raids and settler attacks killed over 500 Palestinians by late 2024. On Israel’s northern border,
Hezbollah launched daily rocket attacks, prompting Israeli airstrikes in Lebanon that displaced
100,000 people.

### Red Sea Crisis and International Involvement

Houthi forces in Yemen, aligning with Hamas, targeted commercial shipping in the Red Sea, disrupting
global trade. A U.S.-led coalition conducted airstrikes on Houthi positions, while Iran-backed
militias in Iraq and Syria attacked U.S. bases, raising fears of a regional war.

### Diplomatic Shifts

The war strained Israel’s relations with neighboring Arab states, halting normalization efforts with
Saudi Arabia. Globally, public opinion shifted against Israel, particularly after social media
amplified images of Gaza’s devastation. In the United States, President Joe Biden faced pressure to
limit military aid to Israel, culminating in a February 2025 congressional vote to condition
assistance on human rights compliance.

## Conclusion: An Unresolved Conflict

The Israel-Gaza War underscores the intractability of a conflict rooted in competing national
narratives, territorial claims, and security dilemmas. While the January 2025 ceasefire has reduced
hostilities, core issues—including Gaza’s political future, Israel’s occupation policies, and the
right of return for Palestinian refugees—remain unaddressed. Reconstruction efforts, estimated at
$50 billion, hinge on sustained international engagement and a credible peace process. Without
addressing systemic inequities and historical grievances, the cycle of violence risks perpetuating
itself, leaving another generation trapped in the shadow of war.
